 

 

en Oe

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 59, Number 3, May 1984

Frank A. Parsons, ’54................. Su eee ease Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ..................... Associate Editor
Robert Fure ..................0085 Contributing Editor
Joyce Harris ........ 0... cece eee. Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas ..................06. Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73..............00000- Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Trustees Receive Coed Reports...........scccccesecceeeeeeeeeees
“Without Fear Or Favor’’............ceecccccccccccccccceseeeeeees
Surveys On Coeducation.............cceecscecesceseccseeecsensees
Mock Convention Picks Mondale...............ssessseeseeeees

McDowell on the Parade........... ccc ccccccccccccccccesscccceeees 11
A King of the SkieS..............ccccccccccscecccccccscccessccceoes 12
Chasing a Bright Dream................ssceeececeescceeeeeeeeeees 18
Spring Reumions.............scccscsccsccccccescccecsescceescseeess 20
When W&L Men Gather... .......0000.deccescssscisesneruscseese 22
WEL Gazette. ...........ceccenessseuecevenessen sues oe: meen seman 24
Spring Sports ROUNAuUp.............sceeseeceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 33
Chapter NeWS..........sscssccccsncccsndsusbeseenassccssenstonsncsn 35
Class Notes. .cccccscscsecsscscsetenccesteusse ss 0009 ne teste wiudnecn 39
In Memoriatiie sss vececcoescecuedectrnhncuneecs ee tev ER tenes euvscees 47
And furthermore:..:...:-ceseses00scs@peweieees (000 hast cescsess, 48

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas.

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Allcommunications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoMs, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, 59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, 756, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OwEN H. Harper, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt JR., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM McCLInTocx III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
HENRY NOorTBERG III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
RIcE M. TILLey JR., ’58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, 62, ’65L, Chicago, Ill.

CVU

ON THE COVER: Has the coeducation debate stirred up
enough hot air to inflate a balloon? Actually, the debate had
nothing to do with alumnus/aeronaut King Sprott’s balloon
flight over the campus this spring. For more on Sprott and his
balloon, see page 12. Photographs (front and back) by Charles
Mason, ’84

 

 

 

 

Trustees R eceive Coe Q ucation Reports

Special Board Meeting mcneaured for July 13- 14

-Atits spring meeting held in Lexington May 2 24, 25 and
_ 26, Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees received a serie
‘reports from its study of admitting women to the Univer-
sity’ 5 undergraduate degree programs. ©

 

   

Those reports, developed by the 25-member Board’s |
ned the potential impact of |

 

standing committees, exan
coeducation on such areas of the University as academic af-
| fairs, s student life, mamas extracurricular activities, and

‘iat ‘d with the traditions of the

 

 
 
 
  

| slowing : . g the 1 C eeetad oe M. Ballengee, 4sL, of -
sathecocd said the Trustees ae |

   
 
    

hi 5 tector of he

We spent a iiaiori portion of this meet
"the coeducation question,” said Ballengee.
sions were quite productive, and we are “ole: is
thorough manner in which the committees have exan
these important issues.” 7
_Ballengee added that the Trustees will use ether rep

 

 

|
I

   

| tees expressed their interest in the subject as the
_ result of the action of a special grand jury that probed drug
_ trafficking in Rockbridge County. |

The ad hoc committee, comprising faculty, ad-
ministrators, and students, will be charged with examining
_ ways in which the University can best respond to recommen-
dations made by the special grand jury. oe |
Circuit Judge George E. Honts III released porti
ial g ar d Jury’s report, including segments
“for both Washington and Lee and Virginie Military Institute
to “develop affirmative and effective guidelines for anti- —
drug programs, working i in concert with local law enforce-

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

no euthorines:” i

ed with the - Co:

 

ofa decision at a ‘a special meeting s scheduled for Sly 13 and -

~ . Aa 7

   

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

deal exclusively wi

- committees cond
ing sessions, the ful

SOedHEaHON: andy a

    
 
  

of opinion surveys t take cen

faculty, and students on the
On three occasions dur
— Bo
coeducation study. On two of thos

 

 

> occasions the

 

  
 
  
 

the student t body z nd tl
members of the admini:
| of Washi sessions a

   

 

Board met oan. sess
ok * *
In another matter, the Trustees instructed President

John D D. Wilson toa ar point an ad hoc committee

     

  

on of i its $ final session on May 26 the 7 _ this commu
on about the coeducation issue. _ baa -Inarelated

‘to examine -

 

t hat time were the results tt
ton and Leealumni, _— sp

ing the week ce id meetings the ee
ard met as a whole to discuss i issues surrounding the
Bo da rd oe
: and outgoing presidents of both —
: he Alumni Association without any _
tration or rstaff in attendance. One

 

 

 

 

 

‘Without Fear or Favor’

What does it mean to be a Trustee of Washington and Lee University?

Well, for openers, it means hard work, a commitment of substantial chunks of time, energy,
and expense associated with the three regularly scheduled Board meetings each year, the occasional
extra meetings of standing or ad hoc committees, and—as is the case this summer—the infrequent
but always important special meetings of the full Board.

It means, too, that one has accepted the sobering responsibility for assuring the future of an
institution that has now ne for 235 years.

Webster says a Trustee is “cone to whom something is entrusted.’’ Webster says “‘entrust”’ means
to confer a trust on; especially, to deliver something in trust to; to commit to another with
confidence.

In other words, Washington and Lee’s Trustees are persons on whom all other members of the
University family—alumni, benefactors, faculty, students, and staff—can depend for decisions and
~ actions in the best interest of the University and its future.

Every Trustee participating in the important decisions of July 13-14 will have taken this oath:

“Ido solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office to which
I have been appointed by the Trustees of Washington and Lee University, to the best of my skill and
judgment, without fear or favor. So help me God. ’”’

In the long history of Washington and Lee University the burden of office has often weighed
heavily on the shoulders of those honored by the title, ‘“Trustee.’’ Perhaps never moreso than now.
There is no easy choice, for the risks along any chosen path are real, they are serious, and they are
complex. No choice in itself assures Washington and Lee’s future. Only the steadfast support of
us all for whatever decision the Trustees make can assure that future.

Of the 25 selected for the office of Trustee under the Charter and By-Laws of the University,
22 are alumni. The skill and judgment resident in the collective strength of this Board is equal to

the challenge its members face. So is their courage, their resolve to act without fear or favor.
These are the Trustees upon whom we depend, in whom we do, indeed, trust.

JAMES M. BALLENGEE, RECTOR
Radnor, Pennsylvania

JOHN D. WILSON, PRESIDENT
Lexington, Virginia
JAMES A. PHILPOTT
Lexington, North Carolina
H. GORDON LEGGETT, JR.
Lynchburg, Virginia
EDGAR F. SHANNON, JR.
Charlottesville, Virginia

THOMAS HAL CLARKE
Atlanta, Georgia

CALVERT THOMAS
Hartford, Connecticut

S L KopaLp
Memphis, Tennessee

A. CHRISTIAN COMPTON
Richmond, Virginia

F. Fox BENTON, JR.
Houston, Texas

THOMAS B. BRANCH, III
Atlanta, Georgia

JERRY G. SOUTH
San Francisco, California

IsAAC N. SMITH, JR.
Charleston, West Virginia

CHRISTOPH KELLER, JR.
Alexandria, Louisiana

Ross R. MILLHISER
New York, New York

HousTon H. HARTE
San Antonio, Texas

C. Royce Houay, III
Jacksonville, Florida

J. THOMAS TOUCHTON
Tampa, Florida

JOSEPH S. KEELTY
Baltimore, Maryland

Guy T. STEUART, II
Chevy Chase, Maryland

FRANK G. YOUNG
Fort Worth, Texas

JAMES F. GALLIVAN
Nashville, Tennessee

Mrs. FRANCES A. LEWIS
Richmond, Virginia

CHARLES S. ROWE
Fredericksburg, Virginia

THOMAS K. WOLFE
New York, New York

Whatever the decision of July 13th-14th, Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees will deserve
the admiration, respect, and full support of all those who value the University and its traditions.

—E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., Rector, Emeritus; Trustee, 1969-1981; Rector, 1974-198]

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 

 

 

The Surveys sess
Majority of Alumni, Students Oppose Coeducation; Faculty in Favor oe
opinion on nthe many questions associated with the admis- |
sion of undergraduate women to Washington and Lee
discovered that majorities of the alumni and students favor
W&L remaining all-male while a majority of faculty favor
coeducation for the University. / oO
While the alumni were sur’ through a question-|
naire administered by a Richmo rch firm, a W&L fects is d o the surr |
sociology class conducted the surveys of thestudentsand - women’. S colleges, s “dieteHioration of fraternity social lite, and
faculty as part of a project inresearch methods. . a weakening of the intercollegiate athletic program. i
Reports on the three c stionnaires were presented ee wk wm =
oard of Trustees during its spring meeting on May : _ FAC JLTY SURVEY: The sociology class distributed 1 ques--
to all mem|

 

The Surveys

academically qualified students,’ 72.9 percent of the facul-
ty strongly believe it would, 11.9 percent “‘somewhat’”’
believe it would, 11 percent believe there would be no
change, 3.4 percent “somewhat” believe it would not, and
0.8 percent strongly believe it would not.

The survey asked faculty to list in order of importance
both the advantages and disadvantages they think coeduca-
tion would have on the University. Faculty cited “better
students” as the number one advantage and potential cost as
the primary disadvantage.

Meantime, 83.3 percent indicated they think the
academic environment would be “greatly” or “somewhat”
enhanced by coeducation.

According to David Novack, associate professor of
sociology who directed the project, the faculty is more
strongly in favor of coeducation now than it was in 1981
when 76.9 percent favored coeducation in a similar survey.

kkk
STUDENT SURVEY: Administered during registration for
spring term classes, the student survey was completed by
1,297 undergraduates, or 84 percent of the undergraduate
student body. In addition a telephone survey of non-
respondents was conducted to validate the findings of the
broader study.

In the student survey, 22.3 percent said they “strongly
believe’ W&L should become coeducational with 20.1 per-
cent saying they ‘‘somewhat believe it should.’’ There were
4.7 percent with no opinion while 33.9 percent said they
“strongly believe W&L should not’? become coeducational
and another 19 percent indicating they ‘somewhat believe it
should not.”’

Meantime, 62.1 percent of the students said coeduca-
tion would be in the University’s best interests with 32.1
percent choosing “‘strongly” and 30 percent choosing
“‘“somewhat.’’ There were 13 percent indicating no change,
11.5 percent said they ‘“‘somewhat believe” it would not be
in the University’s best interests, and 13.4 “strongly believe”
it would not.

Asked how they felt coeducation would effect the
academic environment at W&L, 56.1 percent of the
students indicated that it would be either “‘greatly” or
“somewhat” enhanced by coeducation.

Students listed “‘loss of tradition’’ most often as the
primary disadvantage with ‘‘increased academic standards”’
the primary advantage.

More than 80 percent of the students thought coeduca-
tion would harm the fraternity system at W&L either great-
ly (32.3 percent) or somewhat (49 percent). More than half
(50.4 percent) of the students said the presence of women in
the classroom would not be a distraction to them while 44.8

4

percent said it would present ‘“‘somewhat” of a distraction.

Comparatively, a majority of students (50.2 percent) in
a 1980 survey favored coeducation while a majority in the
current survey is opposed.

Examining the recent survey in light of previous studies
of the issues, Novack said one of the most noteworthy
trends the sociology students found is that both students
and faculty are becoming increasingly concerned about
academic standards.

“‘That fact becomes apparent when you consider that a
majority of both students and faculty perceived coeduca-
tion as worth adopting to maintain or improve W&L’s
academic standards,’’ said Novack. “‘Also, the primary ad-
vantage of coeducation listed by both faculty and students
was improved academic quality.’’

Disagreements between students and faculty concern
potential problems for the students as a consequence of at-
tending an all-male school, noted Novack.

“With the changing role and place of women in our
society, two-thirds of the faculty believe that our students
might experience problems when they encounter women in
graduate programs or in the work place while only 18 per-
cent of the students share that concern,’’ he said.

 

 

 

Charles Mason photo

 
 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

‘Weekend
Democrats’
Name Mondale

Mock Delegates Choose
Bentsen as Running Mate

 

Mondale delegates to the convention

Though the Democratic National Convention was more
than two months away and though several states had not
yet held their primary elections, Walter Mondale’s future as
his party’s presidential candidate was all but assured short-
ly after noon on May 12.

It was at that moment when Peyton Craighill, co-
chairman of the Wisconsin delegation, stepped into the
crowded aisle to announce his state’s vote.

Shouting into the microphone in order to be heard over
the din of the convention hall, Craighill boomed out the
news: “Mr. Chairman, Wisconsin, the Dairy State, the state
with the best cheese this side of Southern California, casts
19 votes for Walter Mondale and .. .”’

The rest of Craighill’s announcement was inaudible
above the boisterous celebration it touched off. Wisconsin’s
19 votes had given the former vice president a total of 657,
putting him over the top and giving him the nomination of
Washington and Lee’s Mock Democratic Convention.

Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado finished with 496 votes
while Rev. Jesse Jackson was third with 133.

Lexington will never be confused with San Francisco.
And W&L's traditionally conservative student body will
never be confused with the Democratic Party. Yet, given the

Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware displays bumper sticker.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Scott Ferrell photo

 

Mock Convention’s record for accuracy, Mondale might
have been well advised to stop campaigning and save his
energy and money for the race to come.

Widely acknowledged as the most realistic event of its
kind, W&L’s convention has staked its reputation on a
record of correctly forecasting the nominee of the party out
of the White House 12 times in 17 attempts.

More impressive still, the W&L mock pols have erred
but once in their last eight conventions.

While Mondale’s selection came on the first ballot, the
1,313 delegates had a more difficult time when it came to
choosing a running mate for Mondale.

On the first of two ballots, the convention was leaning
toward Rep. Geraldine Ferraro of New York, the “‘fox from
Flatbush” as one supporter called her. After a spirited floor
battle in which state chairmen were constantly retreating to
nearby telephones to call to their real-life counterparts for
advice, Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen was nominated by a nar-
row margin when the Colorado delegation swung its sup-
port from favorite son Hart to Bentsen at the end of the se-
cond roll call.

This was the third time the Mock Convention has
nominated a vice presidential candidate. So far, the record

5

A floor demonstration in progress

 

University Theatre presents Reagan Rex. (See story on Page 27.)

is only 50 percent—right with Walter Mondale in 1976 and
wrong with Howard Baker in 1980.

The vice presidential fight provided some of the
weekend’s best moments. Not only was there a genuine bat-
tle waged on the floor of the convention, but the event’s
long-standing reputation for realism was severely tested.

As senior Jack Dent, the convention’s political director,
observed when Bentsen had finally gained the nomination:
“IT was concerned that it was becoming a popularity contest
rather than a reflection of reality.’’

The mere possibility that W&L, with its all-male
undergraduate school and the current debate over a change
to coeducation, would select a woman as a vice presidential
nominee made for a novel situation. That was not lost on
the delegates, of course.

But as more and more state chairmen returned from the
phones with up-to-the-minute information from the
various state headquarters, reality (at least, reality as it was
being perceived by state Democratic leaders around the
country) won the day, and Bentsen was nominated.

kkk

Preparations had been under way for two years. The
event itself lasted less than 30 hours.

6

 

 

Senior Christopher Lykes mans phones.

WPH photo

 

   

Peter Cronin photo

But the result was, as the Washington Post put it, “a
two-day political extravaganza, known for its raucous
realism—right down to beefy security guards, demonstra-
tions and vote trading. . .’’

For long-time observers of Mock Conventions, in-
cluding many alumni who had returned for reunion
weekend and joined the festivities, the trappings were
familiar: the parade down historic Lexington’s Main Street;
the platform speeches by nationally-prominent politicians;
the colorful bunting and campaign signs that turned
Warner Center into a convention hall.

Newcomers were impressed by some less obvious
elements—chiefly the care with which the delegates went
about their principal task. State chairmen could be seen
reviewing newspaper: clips about the political climate in the
states they represented and could be overheard talking by
telephone to political leaders from Santa Fe to Boston.

Sen. William Proxmire of Wisconsin, who delivered the
keynote speech at 10 a.m. on Saturday, said afterwards that
he was “‘astonished”’ to be speaking to a full convention
hall at that hour of the day. “They either take this very
seriously,’’ said Proxmire. “Or they never sleep.’’

Student leaders of the convention, which was organized

WPH photo

 

 

Sen. Jennings Randolph of West Virginia

   

under the co-chairmanship of seniors Steve Lewis and Peter
Muller, were a bit concerned about the way things started at
the first session on Friday since it was clear that the mock
delegates, the majority of whom clearly lean toward the
Republican side of things, had not stepped into their roles
as Democrats.

The biggest cheer of the first session came when Lex-
ington Mayor Charles Phillips, professor of economics at
W&L, greeted them as “fellow Republicans who are
weekend Democrats.’’

That prompted Sen. Ernest “Fritz” Hollings of South
Carolina, a former presidential candidate who brought
greetings from the Democratic Party, to exclaim: ‘“This isn’t
a Democratic convention, it’s a Republican ambush.”’

Too, the coeducation controversy, which had been
broached by about two dozen of the parade floats bearing
anti-coed signs, was a constant undercurrent. During his
welcoming remarks W&L President John D. Wilson said:
“How kindred you are in spirit to our own shaping per-
sonalities, General Washington and General Lee, both great
American leaders, both great patriots, both great leaders in
the never-ending struggle for the freedom and dignity of
the common man and common woman.’’

 

  

WPH photo

~

 

g

=

Qa,
g 5 g
é § 5
8 rw Zz
A, 2 a

Virginia Governor Charles Robb WE&L President John D. Wilson A Gary Hart supporter

The reference to “common woman’ elicited a loud
chorus of boos from the audience.

Convention leaders needn’t have worried, however. It
was left to a youthful senator from Delaware to get the
delegates back on the track.

Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., 41, got the audience on his

 

A Robb Endorsement

Historically, politicians have taken note of the out-
come of Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention
because of its record for accuracy.

But in his remarks at the convention’s first session,
Gov. Charles Robb of Virginia might have overstated the
convention’s significance just a tad when he said that
there are two requisities for a successful presidential
nominee: ““They must survive an interview with Roger
Mudd, ’50, and then they must win the nomination at
Washington and Lee.”’

On the other hand, who’s to argue with the governor
of the Commonwealth?

 

 

 

3
°
=
a.
—
~ Ry
5

 

side with humor. Holding up a ‘“‘Nixon Now More Than
Ever” bumper sticker that was much in evidence during the
convention, Biden told the delegates that “‘it’s good to be
here in the 19th century.”’

He then proceeded to draw long and enthusiastic ap-
plause when he directed the delegates’ attention away from
party politics and toward the future.

Said Biden: ‘‘What most troubles me about the present
political leaders of the world and of our nation, including
their opponents, is that none of them are speaking out with
any eloquence about the coming age but are concentrating
mainly on the present day or the next election.

“President Reagan says very little if anything practical
about the computerized world of the future or about how
to rescue the old smokestack workers of Pittsburgh,
Youngstown, or Detroit or how to educate a rising genera-
tion in new skills that they and the nation will need between
now and the end of the 20th Century.”’

Biden said he believes the American people will listen to
any candidate in any party willing to concentrate on unity,
peace, education, and the defense of civilization ‘‘with
something in addition to smart bombs and laser beams in
outer space.’’

8

WPH photo

The major question, he said, is not whether President
Reagan will be reelected but “whether he will think about
the future.’’

Arguing eloquently that the nation is not addressing the
problems that will confront the student delegates and their
children, Biden said the Democratic Party is not doing a
very good job of addressing those questions and added, “‘I
do not believe we have been getting very much in the way of
the future for the past four years.’’

Biden said he was 17 years old when he heard President
John F. Kennedy challenge the nation ‘‘to ask what you can
do for your country.”’

Asked Biden: “‘What has this country come to, whether
you are a Democrat, a Republican, or an Independent,
when in 24 years we have moved from the standard of ‘Ask
not what your country can do for yow’ to the standard that
says ‘Are you better off today than you were four years
ago?’

“Whether you are a Democrat or a Republican I hope to
God the standard you set for America to repair to is not the
selfish standard of ‘Am I better off?’ Is America better off?
That’s the question.’’

Biden was followed to the podium by 82-year-old Sen.

WPH photo

WPH photo

 

 

WPH photo

Surfs up!

Jennings Randolph of West Virginia who presented the
delegates with an old-time stump speech, challenging them
to exercise their right and vote.

Citing recent elections in which less than 55 percent of
eligible voters cast a ballot, Randolph said the delegates
“can do what has to be done or we will, eight years from
now, elect a president by a minority of the voters rather
than a majority of the voters.

‘““We’re approaching a time when it will not be the ma-
jority winning over the minority but when it will be a ma-
jority of a minority. ”’

He then asked the audience: “‘Are you going to do
something about it?”’ When the response came back as a
thunderous “YES,’’ Randolph launched into a rhythmic
chant of ‘Are you? Are you? Are you?” Soon the students
had struck up a chant of their own. ‘‘Vote. Vote. Vote.
Vote,’’ they shouted, many standing in their chairs and
waving placards.

Biden and Randolph delivered a one-two punch that
put the delegates in the perfect frame of mind to go about
their appointed business.

The next morning Proxmire followed with a keynote
speech which warned of impending consequences if the

 

 

Peter Cronin photo

Bullish on Mondale

 

New York’s float boasted showsgirls.

federal deficit is not reduced.

““There’s no easy way,’’ said Proxmire. ‘‘We have to
follow a tough, austere, puritanical path. We have to cut
spending right across the board. We have to increase
revenues and taxes.”’

Proxmire, who periodically presents his ‘““Golden
Fleece” awards for waste and abuse in government spen-
ding, called for cuts in defense spending and revenue shar-
ing funds the government provides states and localities.

He said the B-1 bomber and MX missile programs
should be stopped and called for a halt to the building of
expensive aircraft carriers.

But though his remarks hit heavily on economic
changes, Proxmire said the one issue that is of overwhelm-
ing importance to Republicans and Democrats alike is
“‘how to prevent a nuclear war.’’ He called for a freeze in
the nuclear arms race and enhanced efforts to negotiate
that freeze.

Following Proxmire’s keynote, the convention delegates
warmed up for the presidential nomination by concluding
work on their platform. Among other things, the platform
called for the elimination of the MX missile and B-1
bomber but did not call for the party to continue its sup-

Peter Cronin photo

WPH photo

 

 

Arkansas delegates in hog heaven

The corner of Bourbon and Washington Streets

port for the Equal Rights Amendment.

As always, the roll call of the states for the presidential
nominee was the highlight as state chairmen mocked their
real-life counterparts by bragging (more or less) about their
states. North Dakota prided itself on being the home of
Lawrence Welk, Angie Dickinson, and the MX missile
while two states, California and Oregon, laid claim to being
the home of the Grateful Dead (Oregon admitted it was on-
ly asummer home for the rock band but insisted it alone is
the country’s top breeder of llamas). Maine was home to
the world’s biggest preppie store. Minnesota was home to
the professional football team that can’t win the big one.
Ohio was home of the Toledo Mud Hens. Nebraska was
home of the college football team that should have gone
for a tie in the Orange Bowl. And on and on.

Too, some of the votes strayed from the three nominated
candidates. Chicago Mayor Harold Washington received 12
of Illinois’ 65 votes. Hubert Humphrey’s son, Skip, and
W&L politics professor Milton Colvin each got two votes
while John Glenn and George McGovern got one each.

The first ballot victory was only the second in conven-
tion history. Ronald Reagan had been nominated on the

10

WPH photo

 

WPH photo

Delegates pass the time.

first ballot in 1980.

When it came to vice presidential nominees, the
delegates let their imaginations roam. Tennis star John
McEnroe, former auto maker John Z. DeLorean and TV
magnate Ted Turner were named on petitions for the post
but never had their names placed in nomination.

Scattered votes for the vice presidential nominee went to
University of Oklahoma basketball star Wayman Tisdale,
rock singer Jimmy Buffet, writer Hunter S. Thompson,
Gumby, and Larry (Bud) Melman, a frequent guest on the
David Letterman television show.

Perhaps the biggest disappointment for convention
organizers was that they were unable to get a telephone
hookup with Mondale for a live acceptance speech. In-
stead, Mondale’s director of delegate selection, Tad Devine,
addressed the convention by phone from Washington.

Said Devine: ‘“‘Today America has everything to build
on for the future except the leadership to take us there.’’

Mondale was on the campaign trail in Southern
California. He could have relaxed. Considering the W&L
Mock Convention’s record, Mondale’s nomination is in the
bag.

 

WPH photo

 

 

by Charles McDowell

Anyway,
The Parade
Matters

The following column by Charles McDowell, ’48, ap-
peared in the May 13, 1984, editions of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch and is reprinted here by permission.

WASHINGTON—Friday morning in Lexington, the
students of Washington and Lee University staged the
parade down Main Street that is the traditional prelude to
their mock political convention. It isa mock parade, to tell
the truth, and that is its charm.

The parade mocks Pasadena and pretentious state pride
and themes of college life, and, sometimes, presidential
politics.

For years now, while the Mock Convention was achiev-
ing a national reputation as a political forecaster, I gradually
have become more and more a fan of the parade. It, too,
gives insights into trends. Although the trends may be
parochial, Lexington is my hometown and W&L is my col-
lege. Nice, small-scale trends in a familiar, sentimental con-
text are good for the perspective of a Washington
correspondent.

So, some observations on the parade opening W&L's
Mock Democratic National Convention of 1984:

1. There are still a lot of tractors and hay wagons in
Rockbridge County, and college-farm relations are such
that the vehicles are available for floats.

2. There are still at least two donkeys in Rockbridge
County.

3. Coors beer is making a major drive against
Budweiser. Coors displays were visible on several floats,
especially the Colorado float where the beer, not Gary Hart,
was the heroic theme.

4. Among these students, the leading issue in the world,
whatever the platform committee thinks, is coeducation at
W&L. Float after float carried signs opposing the admis-
sion of women as undergraduates. (A student’s mother,
visiting from New York: “I will never understand Southern
gentlemen.’’)

5. These students easily control their enthusiasm for the
Democratic candidate for president. Richard Nixon,
though parodied, was a subject of more interest.

Although I had to leave Lexington before the convention
itself began, Dale Eisman of the Times-Dispatch was there,
and he caught the tone fast. The mock delegates cheered at
odds times.

 

They cheered the name of President Reagan when it was
mentioned by Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, the South Carolina
Democrat who was a non-mock, in-person speaker. They
cheered the mayor who forthrightly welcomed the delegates
as “fellow Republicans who are weekend Democrats.”’

None of this meant the student-delegates would not
argue and vote like Democrats at the convention. The pains
they take for authenticity are impressive. State by state, the
students are immersed in political reality and often are in
touch up to the final vote with party leaders and political
seers.

Because they are serious about reflecting the real world,
the mock delegates were fated to nominate Walter Mondale,
and did so narrowly.

W&L's record is good. Twelve out of 17 times since the
Mock Conventions began early in the century, the students
have correctly forecast the nominee of the party out of
power. Since 1948, the students are 8 for 9.

The problem is—and I am just churlish enough to bring
it up—that there is a question about the relevancy of mock
conventions at a time when the party conventions
themselves are becoming mock. Conventions in recent years
have had little to do with nominating presidential can-
didates beyond certifying the results of the sequence of
primaries and caucuses that goes before.

The point is, we have evolved a new system of
nominating presidential candidates. It is still possible, of
course, that a convention could come down to the old tac-

 

tics of withheld commitments, shifting alliances, and the
balancing of interests through negotiation and
compromise.

Conceivably it could happen at the Democratic conven-
tion this year. But since 1952, the outcome of most conven-
tions has been clear before they started.

Maybe my concern about relevancy is stuffy and misses
the point besides. Maybe the value of mock conventions is
in what the participants learn of politics and procedure, and
in the enthusiasm they seem to develop for it. Or W&L's mis-
sion might be to preserve the convention as a fine antique
while the real parties abandon it.

Anyway, the parade matters. New Jersey: ‘The Toll
Booth State.’’ Indiana: “Home of the Baltimore Colts.”’
Virgin Islands: “‘Virgins Against Coeducation.’’

 

 

11

by Jeffery G. Hanna

A King
of the
Skies

Record-setting Balloonist
Crosses the Andes
(and the Colonnade)

The world’s a nicer place in my beautiful balloon.
It wears a nicer face in my beautiful balloon.
Up-Up and Away

As far as he can remember, Kingswood Sprott Jr. had
never even seen a photograph of a hot-air balloon, let alone
the real thing, until that fateful morning in 1970.

A prominent lawyer in Lakeland, Fla., Sprott was thumb-
ing through the Sunday paper when he came to Parade
magazine and spied a half-dozen hot-air balloons floating
majestically on the magazine’s cover. It was an inspiring
sight. And Sprott was suitably inspired.

“T had thought for some time that there was something
I ought to be doing. I just couldn’t put my finger on just
what it was,”’ says Sprott. ‘Then I saw those balloons and
knew immediately that this was it.’’

12

 

Six months later Sprott was the only licensed hot air
balloon pilot in the Southeast. By 1975 he had set three
world altitude records in balloons. In 1978 he completed
the first—and probably last—balloon crossing of the
Andes Mountains.

Along the way he won world ballooning’s major award
and got his name inscribed on the hallowed pages of the
Guinness Book of World Records, right there amid cita-
tions for underwater violin playing and hammock swim-
ming. Clearly, he found what it was he was supposed to be
doing.

Explains Sprott: “Some people like to fish. Personally,
fishing bores me. I like to fly balloons.’’

* * *
King Sprott received his bachelor’s degree from W&L

with a history major in 1956. He then went on to earn his
W&L law degree in 1959. In those seven years, he never
seemed destined for a life of high adventure.

“Nothing I did at W&L would have suggested that I’d
get involved in something like hot-air ballooning,’’ Sprott
says. “I did Sigma Nu. And between semesters in my se-
cond year of law school I went into the Army paratroopers,
which I thought was pretty heroic at the time. But if I had a
pioneering spirit, it was undiscovered back then.’’

Then he spied the photo of those hot-air balloons, and
things were never the same.

His devotion to the practice of law never wavered. (“The
law,’’ says Sprott, ‘“‘is a stern taskmaster.’’) But his devotion
to his chosen avocation is nearly as strong.

That is evident the moment you enter Sprott’s rambling
ranch-style house on top of Hunter’s Hill outside Lex-
ington. The house is literally filled with balloons. There are
paintings of balloons and prints of balloons and sculptures
of balloons. There are even balloons on the coffee cups.

Outside, a spring thunderstorm is in progress. Not a day
for flying balloons.

No matter, Sprott simply leans back in his chair, plops
his feet on the coffee table, and takes an earthbound visitor
on a few memorable trips through the clouds.

Like the time he came crashing down on the pitcher’s
mound of a Little League baseball diamond in Palmetto,
Fla. Or the time the top of his balloon popped halfway out
at 5,000 feet. Or the time his balloon was caught in a sud-
den wind sheer over the Andes.

As he relates these adventures, Sprott punctuates the
tales with bursts of hearty laughter. The more harrowing
the experience, the heartier the laugh.

Then, no doubt noticing a combination of incredulity
and terror in his visitor’s eyes, Sprott pauses for a paren-
theses: “You understand now that you have to go out of
your way to hurt yourself flying a balloon. It really is quite
safe.

“All you do is inflate the balloon, making sure you
don’t set it on fire in the process, hop in the basket, hit a
few blasts on the burner, and let the wind take over,’’ he
says. ““There is nothing magical about it.”’

That isn’t quite true. Actually, there is something quite
magical about standing in a basket and riding the wind. It
is manned flight in its purest—and oldest—form. The ex-
perience is at once indescribably exhilarating and uncom-
monly serene.

Not that Sprott would ever describe it that way. His
description is far less complicated. “It’s fun,’’ he says. And
for him, that’s enough.

“If I stopped to analyze why it’s so much fun, it pro-

 

 

Sprott prepares the balloon.

 

Imeson (left) and Joe Sprott lend King a hand.

 

Firing up the burners

13

King of the Skies

bably wouldn’t be as much fun. That would be like going
into psychoanalysis to find something that’s wrong with
you. This may be something that’s wrong with me that I
don’t want to find out.”’

* * *

Sprott’s protests to the contrary, there is much to learn
about piloting a hot-air balloon.

For starters, you must learn how to inflate the balloon,
first blowing cold air into the envelope, which consists of
about 1,000 square yards of material, by using a gasoline-
driven inflator fan. Next you move the basket with
propane-fueled burners on top of it into the mouth of the
balloon. Once the basket is in position and the burner is
turned on, heat from the burner increases the temperature
of the.air inside the balloon. (The temperature of the air in-
side an ascending balloon is about 200 degrees Farenheit.)

Hot air rises. With it, goes balloon, basket, and balloonists.

Once airborne, a balloonist’s primary challenge is to fly
the balloon level, a talent that comes only with experience.

The best way to learn how to fly level is to keep the
balloon at treetop height, says Sprott.

‘That way you’re crashing into and out of the tops of
trees. You can actually see and feel whether the balloon is
level. As the balloon cools, it reaches its equilibrium at a
certain temperature and will float along dead level for only
a moment or two before it becomes too cool and begins to
descend. Then you heat it. It will be at equilibrium for
another moment or two. Then it will get a little hotter and
begin to rise.”’

Flying a balloon level involves more than mere
aesthetics.

 

14

 

Sprott sports his famous ‘‘Look of eagles’’ expression at the end of a successful flight.

‘Lots of times you don’t have any options where you’re
going to land,’’ Sprott explains. “There are power lines on
the ground that cannot be moved for your convenience.
When you’re flying with 10,000-volt lines in front of you
and you want to fly no higher than five feet above those
lines and drop on the far side of them to land, you don’t
want to be wondering whether you'll be too low or too high
when you cross those lines. That’s when you need to be able
to keep the balloon level.’

Though a balloonist can control the ups and downs, the
“thither and yon,’’ as Sprott calls it, is another matter.
Mostly, you go where the wind wants you to go. Since wind
direction varies at different altitudes, an experienced
aeronaut (a-high-falutin’ name for a balloon pilot) can alter
the balloon’s direction by taking it up or down to find an
agreeable wind.

*““But you have to resolve yourself to the fact that
ballooning is the most intractable form of flight there is.
You don’t have a steering wheel you can turn and make a
sharp left turn,’’ says Sprott. “That bothers anyone who
has flown an airplane and gets in a balloon basket with no
controls or switches or dials. I figured everybody flew the
way I fly—by standing up in a basket and looking around
at the world and not being able to control where you
went.”’

* * *

One of the first things King Sprott discovered about
hot-air ballooning was that you can’t keep your hobby a
secret for long. Nobody can ignore the sight of a hot-air
balloon overhead. Heads turn. Necks crane. It’s a natural
phenomenon. Add to that the fact that when Sprott started

 

 

Heating up for the takeoff

few people in central Florida had ever seen a hot-air
balloon in flight.

“‘The first two or three years were wild,’’ Sprott recalls.
“TI couldn’t take off in my balloon without a parade form-
ing behind me. Hundreds of cars would line up on the street
and follow me. Kids on bicycles would ride off and never be
heard from again. It was worse than the pied piper.’’

And since they are so hard to ignore, hot-air balloons
are better than the classifieds when it comes to advertising.
Had he so desired, Sprott probably could have quit his law
practice and earned a decent living by helping shopping
centers open and giving rides at firemen’s bazaars.

Truth is, he did use his balloon for one unforgettable
advertising jaunt when a friend asked him to buzz the
University of Florida’s football stadium one Saturday
afternoon.

“My friend had a construction business and was a big
Florida Gator fan,’’ Sprott says. ““The idea was for me to

fly over the field with some banners advertising the con-
struction company.

‘‘When the band started the National Anthem, I took
off from a parking lot at one end of the field. I flew into
the stadium, dipped down to a few feet above the band,
dropped a huge banner that read ‘Go Gators,’ and flew up
over the scoreboard and out of the stadium. My friend got
his money’s worth.’’

And within a matter of days the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration had issued a new rule specifically banning
such flights.

Sprott says his high-flying adventures had little effect
on his law practice. He never saw fit to fly over Lakeland
with banners reading: ‘“‘See King Sprott for your legal
work.’’

“I did primarily litigation work and mostly represented
insurance companies, which didn’t care one whit about
what I did,’’ Sprott says. “I was well known because of the
ballooning. Every newspaper article would start off, ‘Pro-
minent Lakeland attorney . . . today flew across the Andes,
today crashed into power lines, today was seen disappear-
ing into a lake.’ My fellow attorneys routinely referred to
me as ‘prominent Lakeland attorney.’ ”’

Sprott had been piloting hot-air balloons about five
years when he started seeing how high he could fly. He set
world records in three different categories of balloons. The
most publicized of those records was 38,789 feet in an AX-8
balloon, which has a maximum size of 105,000 cubic feet as
opposed to the more standard AX-7 balloon with its max-
imum size of 77,000 cubic feet.

It was that record-setting flight in 1975 that earned
Sprott the Montgolfier Diploma from the World Congress
of the Federation Aeronautique Internationale. That award
is the highest honor attainable in world ballooning. It was
also that flight that got Sprott in the Guinness Book of
World Records for the record altitude in an open basket.

That record stood until 1979 when Chauncey Dunn flew
53,000 feet. Dunn’s record had an asterisk in that he wore a
pressure suit. Sprott merely took along a tank of oxygen on
his flight.

“But Chauncey can have the record,’’ Sprott says. “‘It’s
safe—from me, at least.’

Bored with seeing how high he could fly without any
particular destination in mind, Sprott began looking for
new challenges in 1976. He decided to fly a balloon over the
Himalayas. That idea was scrubbed when he couldn’t get
permission from the Chinese government. Then he decided
to fly over Mount McKinley in Alaska but scrubbed that
idea when he realized there was no place to fly to. (“You
eventually have got to come down, and it’s nice to be near
civilization.’’)

15

King of the Skies

Eventually he settled on the Andes Mountains. In
retrospect, he would probably have done better to scrub the
entire project.

The adventure began sedately enough in 1976 with let-
ters of inquiry to the Argentine and Chile authorities. That
was the start of two years of planning which culminated on
January 27, 1978, when Sprott and partner Bill Spohrer of
Miami launched their specially-made yellow-and-white
balloon, Condor, from near Rio Blanco, Chile.

Their destination was the Argentinian village of
Tupungato 75 miles away. The crossing took three hours.
Sprott still remembers them as the longest three hours of
his life. From the very moment the balloon lifted off, he
knew it was to be a memorable ride.

“‘The turbulence going out of the valley was such that it
was clear in my mind the balloon would be destroyed at any
second,’’ Sprott says, warming to the tale he clearly relishes
telling. “It was unbelievable what we went through until we
got to the last highest point above the valley where we hit
one final wind sheer, which turned the balloon absolutely
horizontal. The basket swung out, the burners were on full
blast, and the flame shot halfway up the side of the
balloon.

“I would have given everything I had in the world to
have turned around and gone right back down where we
came from.”’

No such detour was readily available. And the worst was
yet to come.

With the balloon at about 22,000 feet—the height of the
Andes peak Condor was to cross—the burners stopped
abruptly. No heat. No hot air. No more ascent.

‘““We began to lose altitude and were headed straight for
one of the most unfriendly looking stone faces you can im-
agine,’’ says Sprott. ‘‘I doubt the face of the moon looks as
unfriendly as that spot in the Andes looked to us.’’

At about 18,000 feet as the balloon headed toward the
rock wall at about 75 miles an hour, Sprott turned the burners
all the way off, then back on again. The flame flickered and
reappeared as abruptly and mysteriously as it had disap-
peared. Later, Sprott realized he had purchased adulterated
propane in Chile. Water in the propane had frozen in the
valves at the altitude. Turning the burner off and on had
Squeezed the ice out of the valve.

‘*The experience proved one thing: it is possible to sweat
at 22,000 feet. I had to unzip my jumpsuit I was sweating so
much. One other thing this showed me was that nobody in
their right mind would try to fly a balloon over the Andes.”’

Though the Andes flight was undoubtedly the most
harrowing, Sprott ticks off dozens of less glamorous adven-
tures. Getting caught in some power lines in Palmetto, Fla.,
is one of his favorites. On that occasion, he was trying to

16

 

Floating toward the Warner Athletic Center

extricate the balloon by blasting the burners when suddenly
the power line snapped and the balloon shot skyward as if
launched by rockets.

“T headed straight for Tampa Bay but knew I didn’t
have enough fuel on board to cross the Bay and had no in-
tention of getting wet,’’ Sprott says. “So I popped the top
out of the balloon and went crashing earthward, coming to
rest on the pitcher’s mound of a Little League baseball
field, which was fortunately not in use.

“As I was surveying the situation, a man drove his car
onto the field, jumped out and exclaimed, ‘That was the
greatest show I’ve ever seen.’ I told him I was glad he’d en-
joyed it. Then he went back to his car, reappeared with a jar
of Smucker’s preserves, presented the jar to me, and then
drove off again. I figured I had earned those preserves.”’

* * *

Sprott may not have learned about hot-air ballooning

while a W&L student. But his background as a history ma-

 

   

Peter Cronin photo

jor (“Bill Jenks was the reason I majored in history,’’ he
says) stood him in good stead as he got more and more in-
volved with his avocation.

“You can’t get involved in ballooning without becoming
very interested in its history. After all, it was the first form
of flight man ever practiced,’’ Sprott says.

His studies led him to believe that, contrary to the
history books, the first hot-air balloon flight did not occur
on November 21, 1783, when the Montgolfier brothers
launched a balloon over Paris with Louis XVI and Marie
Antoinette in attendance.

“‘Hot-air ballooning probably started in South
America, perhaps hundreds of years before it was ever
known in France,’’ says Sprott. ‘“You can go to Chile and
Peru, particularly the latter, and find all kinds of ar-
chaeological evidence that makes it clear hot-air balloons
were flown there.

‘“‘There is no question that hot-air balloons were
demonstrated in the courts of Spain long before 1783 by a
Catholic monk, who had been in South America and came
back with a hot-air balloon and demonstrated models of it
in the Spanish court.”’

By about 1980, 10 years after he’d been inspired by the
Parade magazine cover, King Sprott had lost some of his
early enthusiasm for ballooning.

No doubt that was partly due to how much he had
already done. After you’ve ballooned over the Andes,
House Mountain can seem pretty tame. Too, the sport had
blossomed in the 10 years since he began. Some of the
novelty was gone.

“One thing that drew me to it was that it was such an
uncommon thing,’’ says Sprott. ‘‘I had the only hot-air
balloon in the Southeastern United States for about three
years and taught most of the balloonists in that area how to
fly.

‘There was an intimate cameraderie to the sport since
all the balloonists in the country knew each other. Now it’s
not so uncommon.”’

Sprott has packed up his balloon for good, however. In
1982 he moved back to Lexington and recently opened a
law office. Since his late wife was from Lexington, Sprott
had been a frequent visitor to the area and often brought
his balloon to give his Lexington friends a ride.

One of those friends—W&L chemistry professor and
computer center director Tom Imeson—had missed out on
all the balloon rides. A city councilman, Imeson had
allegedly threatened to ban hot-air balloons over Lexington
unless Sprott took him up.

So it was that early on a chilly April morning Sprott in-
flated his multi-colored balloon with the yellow crown on
top (for King, of course) on W&L’s Front Campus. The
passengers were Imeson (clearly a political payoff) and

Back to earth near Liberty Hall

 

Wrapping things up

Mrs. Dorothy Swink (a belated 60th birthday present).

In effect, it amounted to a W&L history major return-
ing to give a W&L chemistry professor a demonstration in
physics. For as they launched the balloon that morning,
Sprott turned to the small crowd which had gathered and
announced: “I will now show Dr. Imeson that Archimedes’
principle works.’’

With that, the balloon lifted off, glided effortlessly
toward the Colonnade, and cleared the top of Newcomb
Hall by a few scant feet.

“I kept warning King that we were going to hit
Newcomb,’’ Imeson insisted later. ““He told me to worry
about my computers, that he’d worry about flying the
balloon.’’

The short flight ended 45 minutes later near Liberty
Hall. The balloon never got higher than 200 feet—more
than 38,000 feet lower than Sprott once flew. And clearing
Newcomb Hall was not exciting as the Andes.

Then again, it met King Sprott’s sole criterion for a suc-
cessful balloon ride. It was fun.

17

 

Peter Cronin photo

 

 

In a small back room, upstairs from the
law office of his friend and partner Tommy
Spencer, Don Baker, ’68, contemplates his
bright dream.

The room is the office of Lime Kiln
Arts, Inc. In its cramped space are two
desks, littered with drawings, ledger sheets,
and correspondence. On the walls,
newspaper clippings hang among survey
maps of the old lime kiln area just west of
Lexington.

In a corner of the room sits a plaster-of-
Paris model of the Lime Kiln project:
miniature dairy cattle graze on the painted
hills above an open air theater, whose gaily
colored seats fan out from a multi-tiered
stage carved from the ancient rock ruin of
the old lime kiln. There, under the twig and
crepe paper trees, a single tiny plastic figure
rehearses, with arms outstretched, his
minor soliloquy. It is enough in itself for
happy meditation.

But Baker is no idle dreamer. The Lime
Kiln Theater Project is well on its way
toward a full scale realization. The dream is
of midsummer nights and theater lights, of
a regional theater here in Rockbridge Coun-
ty that will draw performers and audiences
to Lexington from all parts of the Eastern
and Southern United States—from New
York City, Appalachia, Baltimore, and
Baton Rouge. A dream of Shakespeare
under the stars, music, festivals, and tall
tales.

And it’s coming true. Baker himself
wonders why no one has thought of it
before. Lexington, he shrugs, is the perfect
place—a major cross roads for interstate
tourist traffic, an incomparably beautiful
area, and a population with a sense of
history and an interest in the arts.

Baker pushes back from his desk, an un-
comfortable place for a man just itching to
go out and pace again the rough ground of
his future home. “Already we’ve raised 75
percent of our first year’s budget, which
we've set at $125,000. Most of it from
private donations.’’

Baker is heartened by the response of “the
local folks” to Lime Kiln Arts. But he
credits much of the project’s fundraising
success to his partner, Tommy Spencer, ’69,
a scrappy, street-wise Lexington lawyer
who’s been hammering away at small
obstacles, local resources, and big donors
with the cool persistence of a prizefighter.
“Without Tommy making things happen,”’
Baker allows in his easy, Wise County
Virginia drawl, “this never would have got-
ten off the ground.’’

kk

In a sense, it all began a long time ago

when Baker was a fine arts major at W&L.

by Robert Fure

Chasing
A Bright
Dream

Don Baker, ’68

In the summer of 1967, Baker spent his
vacation in town co-directing and starring
in a memorable production of
Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s
Dream. The location was the ruins of the
old lime kiln. Tommy Spencer had a small
part and handled the lighting. The play was
a smash hit, nobody wanted it to end, and
neither Spencer nor Baker ever quite got
over the magic of the event. The lime kiln
itself, with its quaint haunts, was the
deepest source of enchantment.

During his final year at W&L, Baker
won several awards in acting, directing, and
set design. But after graduation, he moved
abruptly to the more mundane world of

educational counseling in Washington, D.C.

Two years later, missing the mountains, he
went back home to Southwestern Virginia,
where he continued his career in education
and pursued a new interest in home
construction.

Baker’s career as a teacher-builder took

 

him occasionally over the mountains into
Kentucky. It was in 1973, in Whitesburg,
Ky., that Baker discovered Appalshop—or,
perhaps, that Appalshop discovered him.
Appalshop had begun in 1969 as a non-
profit media arts corporation set up by the
Office of Economic Opportunity and the
American Film Institute to teach young
mountain people how to use the media to
tell their own stories. Baker was a born
storyteller with some valuable dramatic ex-
perience and a knack for working with
young people.

Within Appalshop, Baker became Foun-
ding Project Director for Roadside Theater,
a traveling repertory theater that he in effect
raised by hand. The purpose. of the project
was not merely to provide a theater in the
mountains but to determine what kind of
theater “made sense” for the Southern Ap-
palachians. Drawing on the theatrical
heritage inherent in Appalachian culture—
church services, music, and storytelling—
Roadside Theater developed a repertoire
based on tales unique to the region.

Working first with a group of CETA
student volunteers and later with an old
W&L chum, Dudley Cocke, 68, Baker
researched and co-authored Roadside’s first
full-length original stage production, Red
Fox/Second Hangin. He then directed and
performed in the production, taking the tale
of the legendary Doc Taylor (Red Fox) to
college campuses, coal camps, mountain
towns, state prisons, the Smithsonian
Folklife Bicentennial Festival, all the way to
off-Broadway in New York. Now PBS wants
it for American Playhouse.

By 1980, other Roadside productions
had followed with tours, workshops, films,
record albums, and the inevitable exhaus-
tion of life on the road. Wishing to spend
more time with his wife and two children,
Baker began to look for other projects
within Appalshop. Eventually, he found
one in a seven part film series on the history
of Appalachia. Working first as researcher
and scriptwriter, and then as director for the
Appalshop project, Baker was on the road
again, reading, interviewing, writing,
shooting film, and negotiating contracts. To
date, one film has been completed, another
is in production, and a third has just been
written. By popular demand, Baker has
continued to go out with Red Fox/Second
Hangin, which recently played in Las Vegas.
In the meantime, between writing and act-
ing, he has overseen Appalshop’s comple-
tion of its new million-dollar Media Center.

He is not looking for work, but Baker
himself is one who makes things happen.
Though quiet and unassuming, his presence
in Lexington these days is vital to the Lime

 

 

18

 

 

 

Proposed Lime Kiln Theater site

Kiln Arts Project. His record speaks for
itself, but he has to take it up and down the
streets of town.

KK *

Baker leans back in his Naugahyde
chair. There’s a certain lanky, Appalachian
gauntness to his rugged good looks. His
mellow voice winds slowly through his nar-
rative, told in such a way that suggests a
hankering to be whittling on something.

“On one trip through Lexington about
three years ago, I got together with Tommy
and said, ‘You know, Tommy, we really
ought to go ahead and develop that lime
kiln theater idea.’ Then a while later
Tommy got to talking with Brewster Ford
[the late VMI English professor who own-
ed the site], and we got permission to use
the land. We’ve been working on it ever
since.”’

Baker clasps his hands behind his head.
“T just know it’s going to work?’ His deep-
set blue eyes settle on a level conviction.
Then he sidles over to some wishes.

Fundamental to his plans for a regional
theater would be a rotating, non-equity
(non-union) performing company. Regional

 

talent would join nationally prominent per-
formers in bringing folklore and flavor of
Southern Appalachia to the stage. “Most
equity theater today is a funnel to New
York. There is a movement toward regional
theater these days, but most of the actors
and the productions are still trying to get to
New York. I’m not much inclined to that. I
like my home, and I’m interested in creating
a kind of eyeball-to-eyeball theater with ac-
tors who know where they are.

““Theater,’’ Baker says, ‘‘always has to
come from a local place.’’ His long arms
sweep out in a slow, incorporating gesture.
“‘The land and the people of a region are
deeply woven into its culture, and its drama
ought to reflect that. Now theater in New
York is great regional theater, but it reflects
New York, not the rest of the country. We
want to stay at home and do good work so
that people will come to discover what’s
here. For the actors we want to create a sort
of summer camp, a place where people who
are doing good work in a lot of other areas
can come together and work for new
audiences.’’

The word “work” comes to Baker’s lips

Nancy Spencer photo

easily and often—like he was a coal miner
and what else was there?
kKK*

Lime Kiln Arts’ first production will be
Shakespeare’s Cymbeline. The play has a
scene that could in fact introduce Don
Baker and his ambitious project. Belarius, a
British lord banished by King Cymbeline,
praises the country life to the captive au-
dience of Cymbeline’s sons. But Belarius’
praise is mainly an indictment of the city’s
“usuries,’” “‘toil,’’ and “‘censure.’’ What
Belarius loves he can hardly articulate.

This rock and these demesnes have been
my world |
Where I have lived at honest freedom,
paid
More pious debts to Heaven than in all
The fore-end of my time.

(III, iii, 70-73)

The old lime kiln, with its rough-hewn
rocks, comes to mind, along with Baker’s
attachment to his country origins and the
gentle independence of his entrepreneurial
mission.

But why Cymbeline? Baker rises to the
question: “Yes, well, one of the things I love
about Shakespeare is that he wrote for the
rabble as well as for the Queen. Cymbeline
has, you might say, a strong town/country
motif, and, it’s a play that Shakespeare put
everything into, every trick he knew. And
it’s a good tale.

“We're going to set it in 1984 just outside
Lexington,” he smiles, “even though
Shakespeare put it in Britain in the second
century. We'll add to and subtract from the
text, maybe do about an hour and a half of
Shakespeare’s words and forty-five minutes
of our own. It’s a lesser known play, so we
can fiddle around with it without upsetting
too many people. Mainly, we’re going to tell
the tale, and try to do it the way
Shakespeare would have if he were living to-
day in Rockbridge County.

“You know, scholars say that one of the
few places left in the world where you can
still hear Elizabethan dialect and speech
patterns is the Southern Appalachians.’’
Baker twists his mouth to demonstrate a
few pronunciations.

Baker has a cast of 14 set for the late
August production. He promises to write
the script as soon as he figures out where to
find housing for his company. Shakespeare
of the Globe Theater had to do the same
and stayed up late.

Baker stretches and rubs his eyes. A mo-
ment later, Tommy Spencer appears, hands
in his pockets, jingling his change. The
phone rings twice. Baker puts his feet on the
floor, and the good day’s work resumes.

 

 

19

Spring Reunions

Three Receive Distinguished Alumni Awards

A free film, an entertaining and in-
sightful examination of the current political
process, two alumni victories and a tie, a
Mock Convention, and gorgeous spring
weather were the highlights of the 1984
Spring Alumni Reunions at Washington
and Lee.

More than 500 alumni and their families
returned to Lexington for the three days of
activities, which were held concurrently
with the 1984 Mock Democratic
Convention.

In addition to the standard reunion fare,
including banquets for 10 reunion classes,
the weekend saw special recognition paid to
three alumni—Texas District Court Judge
Charles Edward Long Jr., ’32, of Dallas,
newspaper publisher John Martin Jones III,
’37, of Greeneville, Tenn., and insurance
company executive Elbert E. Hall, ’31, of
Abilene, Texas—who were recipients of the
Distinguished Alumni Awards.

The weekend began with a keynote ad-
dress by Richmond Times-Dispatch colum-
nist Charles McDowell, ’48, who entertain-
ed the full house in Lee Chapel with anec-
dotes of his W&L days and provided in-
teresting observations on the changing
nature of the political process.

McDowell, who has covered each na-
tional political convention since 1952, told
his fellow alumni that television has ushered
in a new age of politics in which political
parties and conventions have become ob-
solete while primaries and political action
groups have blossomed.

“I don’t believe it’s an overstatement to
say that television has become the medium
of our politics?’ said McDowell. “‘That’s
where politics occurs, where it is played.

“It’s deeper changes involve our whole
perception of candidates, our perception of
what is a candidate, our perception of what
is a good candidate, our perception of
issues and which issues matter. Indeed, I
think the deeper meaning of television is
that it has changed the very system by which
we select presidents?’

McDowell’s comments set the tone for
the weekend during which many alumni
took advantage of the timing to attend the
convention in Warner Center.

While everyone had an opportunity to
look in on the convention, one reunion class

20

 

President Wilson

went to the movies—for free.

Upon his return to Lexington to his re-
union, Hollywood producer Paul Maslan-
sky, ’54, discovered that his latest film,
Police Academy, was playing at the State
Theatre.

So on Friday night after the Reunion
Ball Maslansky invited the 40 members of
his reunion class and their spouses to a
special showing of his film.

Maslansky and his entourage presented
themselves at the State Theatre box office
shortly before 11 p.m. After satisfying a
skeptical ticket seller by producing an ID to
show that he was, indeed, Paul Maslansky,
executive producer of the movie, he bought
out the theatre for a special, unscheduled
screening.

And as an added treat, Maslansky
bought the popcorn—for everyone!

The annual meeting of the W&L Alum-
ni Association was held on Saturday.

Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson reported on the state of the
University.

In his remarks Wilson referred to
numerous changes at the University, in-
cluding a new curriculum which will be in-
stituted in the fall, and contemplated
changes—a “rethinking” of the University’s

 

Charley McDowell

residential housing patterns and plans for a
new theatre.

Wilson mentioned the Board of
Trustee’s current study of coeducation in
the undergraduate divisions, noting that
“nothing we are likely to contemplate would
reach into so many corners of our lives here
as would such a change in our admissions
policy. The difficult thing is that we cannot
see clearly all of those implications.

“This means, more than ever, that we
must trust each other as best we can to ad-
vance the judgment, employ the experience
and intelligence available to us to assist the
Board of Trustees as they make the decision
they believe will serve the University best?’

Added Wilson: “I pledge to you I will
follow your own good example to the best
of my ability and will speak with candor
and listen with patience as together we con-
sider what the real content of the
Washington and Lee experience is and con-
sider, too, how that content can be
strengthened and reaffirmed in years
ahead?’

Wilson told the alumni gathering that
the University’s “heritage of quality” is its
most precious possession.

“I vow to you and I ask you to vow as
well to do everything in our power to secure

that reputation in the difficult years ahead?’
he added.

The annual Distinguished Alumni
Awards were presented at the Saturday
meeting to three deserving recipients.

Long is a Dallas native who was ap-
pointed judge of the 134th District Court in
Texas in 1953 and held that position 24
years, the longest tenure of any full-time
judge in the Dallas City Courthouse.

Jones is president of the Greeneville
Publishing Company and publisher of the
Greeneville Sun. He is co-owner of the Sun,
the Daily Post-Athenian in Athens, Tenn.,
and six other newspapers.

Hall is a partner in the Abilene in-
surance firm of Perry-Hunter-Hall. He was
elected mayor of Abilene in 1981 and has
been named Outstanding Citizen of the

 

 

Year by the Abilene Chamber of Commerce. DStinguished Alumni Awards were presented to (from left) Judge Charles Edward Long Jr. of Dallas,
Elbert E. Hall of Abilene, Texas, and John Martin Jones of Greeneville, Tenn.

The new officers of the Alumni Board
were also announced at the meeting.
Charles D. Hurt, ’59, of Atlanta, a partner
with the Atlanta law firm of Hurt, Richard-
son, Garner, Todd & Cadenhead, was
elected president, succeeding Peter A.
Agelasto III, ’62, of Norfolk.

James W. McClintock III, ’53, of
Tunica, Miss., is the vice president while
Oliver M. Mendell, ’50, of New York City is
treasurer.

The W&L Law School Association also
held its annual meeting during the weekend
and installed new officers. Robert G.
McCullough, ’S8L, of the Nashville law
firm of Waller, Lansden, Dortch and Davis,
is the Law Council president, succeeding
Raymond W. Haman, ’52L, of Seattle,
Wash.

Virginia Supreme Court Justice Alex-
ander M. Harman, ’44L, of Pulaski is the
new vice president.

Three new members were elected to the . ini —
Law School Association’s council. They are: |
Mary Kay Depoy Harris, ’78, of Chicago;
Richard M. Preston, ’76, of Washington,
D.C.; and, Judge Norman C. Roettger Jr.,
’58, of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.

Just to prove that they were anything but
over the hill, several alumni participated in
Alumni-Varsity games in lacrosse, baseball,
and soccer. More than just participating,
the returning grads taught their younger
counterparts a thing or two.

Led by the outstanding goalkeeping of
Jim Lewis, 58, and Bobby Clements, ’74,
along with the offensive work of Skip
Lichtfuss, ’74, the alumni lacrosse team
came from a 10-4 deficit in the second half
to score a 11-10 victory.

On the baseball diamond, the alumni
teamed with graduating seniors to win a

lopsided 17-9 victory over the varsity while a , : : :

1 : a hed in a 2-2 . dlock New Law School Association President Robert G. McCullough, ’58L, is flanked by law dean and former
le oe a shes ene ° presidents. From left, law school dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.; Alexander M. Harman Jr., ’44L;

with the current varsity squad. McCullough; Raymond W. Haman, ’52L, immediate past president; and, William F. Ford, ’61L.

21

 

Soe ee

 

  

i
as

gps

ae

Fe
Sos

ane

 

PE
EEE
= —

ee

fe
ee

is

iy

ae oapice
Be

pe

 

 

Wi.

& Gazette

 

Fatal fire at Phi Gamma Delta

 

A Washington and Lee sophomore,
Thomas J. Fellin of Weston, Pa., was killed
April 11 in a pre-dawn fire which destroyed
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house.

The fatal fire occurred during the
University’s spring vacation. Fellin was the
only occupant of the house at the time.
Another student, third-year law student
James H. Forte, was sleeping in an annex
(formerly the housemother’s quarters) to
the three-story stone structure but was
unharmed. Law school was not on vacation
at the time.

On May 15, Lexington Police Chief L.
O. Sutton announced that an investigation
had determined the fire had been caused by
arson. Sutton said the investigation was
continuing ‘‘in several directions.’’

Fellin was a member of the varsity
baseball team and had remained in Lex-
ington over the break since the Generals had
several baseball games scheduled for the
week. The team had played a game at
Virginia Wesleyan on Tuesday, April 10, and
had returned to Lexington shortly after
midnight.

_ Thirteen students had been living in the
house when classes were in session. The
University assisted fraternity members in
finding living quarters when they returned
from the spring vacation.

The cause of the fire was still under
investigation.

Lexington Fire Chief Keith Irvine said
that the building was “a total loss” and
estimated damage at at least $200,000.

The fire was discovered at 4:45 a.m.
when Michael Allen, a sophomore who lives
in the Sigma Phi Epsilon house next door
heard crashing noises and went to in-
vestigate. He turned in the alarm, which was
answered by five fire trucks and about 40
volunteer firefighters, including units from
Buena Vista.

According to Lewis G. John, dean of
students, smoke detectors are required on
each floor of all W&L’s fraternity houses.
Fraternities must complete monthly inspec-
tion sheets of the fire safety equipment. The
last completed sheet for Phi Gamma Delta
was dated April 2, nine days before the fire.

24

Student Dies in Fire; Davis Foundation Grant

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

Tom Fellin

The house was insured for $385,000, ac-
cording to Richard B. Sessoms, director of
alumni programs at W&L and faculty ad-
visor to the fraternity. The University does
not own the house or the land.

Fellin had planned to major in English.
An honor roll student, he was one of the
University’s two nominees this year for
Truman Scholarships. He had been elected
to Phi Eta Sigma, the national fraternity
recognizing academic achievement by
freshmen. He was co-chairman of the Penn-
sylvania delegation for the Mock
Convention.

The W&L Alpha Circle of Omicron
Delta Kappa awarded its Rupert N. Latture
Sophomore Award to Fellin posthumously
in May.

National Endowment for the Humanities.
With the addition of the Davis Foundations
grant, Washington and Lee has raised
$600,000 to meet the NEH challenge and
thereby qualify for $200,000 from the NEH.

“With this generous gift, the Arthur
Vining Davis Foundations have enabled us
to meet our challenge and to establish a per-
manent endowment for one of the most
distinctive teaching programs at
Washington and Lee,’’ said W&L President
John D. Wilson.

“Society and the Professions” was
established at W&L in 1974. It is designed to
integrate more effectively the liberal arts
curriculum with specific pre-professional
education in business, journalism, law, and
medicine by making the pre-professional
undergraduates more aware of the
humanistic divisions of the professions they
seek to enter.

The three Arthur Vining Davis Founda-
tions were established by the late Arthur
Vining Davis, who was chairman c ‘anda
major stockholder in Alcoa. Hedi ‘in

— 1962. A $100 million grant from his estate

established the foundations.

The Davis Foundations make gifts in
support of private higher education,
hospice, medicine, theological seminaries,
and national public television programs.

The grant from the Davis Foundations
enables Washington and Lee to meet its
challenge from NEH which was to be com-
pleted by May 1, 1984.

 

Miss Ruth Parmly dies

 

 

WEL receives grant
from Davis Foundations

 

Washington and Lee has received a
$75,000 grant from the Arthur Vining Davis
Foundations of Jacksonville, Fla., to assist
in establishing an $800,000 endowment for
the University’s program in applied ethics,
“Society and the Professions.”’

The $75,000 from the Davis Founda-
tions completes a challenge grant from the

Miss Ruth Parmly, one of Washington
and Lee’s most generous benefactors, died
on May 8 in New York City. She was 81.

Funeral services were held at the Fifth
Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York
on May 12.

Born in New York City, Miss Parmly
had no direct connection with Washington
and Lee, but she wished to memoralize her
father at a school that possessed the values
he exemplified in his life.

With that goal in mind, she made gifts
totaling $2 million to the University. Those
gifts were designed to maintain and
strengthen Washington and Lee’s programs

in the sciences with special emphasis on
physics, physics-engineering, and
mathematics.

Miss Parmly’s father, Professor Charles
Howard Parmly, was a revered teacher of
physics and engineering at the College of
the City of New York.

The gift to the University was recogniz-
ed in the naming of the building housing
the biology, physics, and physics-
engineering departments Parmly Hall.

Miss Parmly studied at Vassar College,
the Sorbonne in Paris, and Columbia
University, where she specialized in 12th-
century French literature and received a
master’s degree in 1934. Washington and
Lee awarded her an honorary doctor of
humane letters degree in 1979.

 

Assistant law dean named

 

M. Patricia Walther, currently a staff
counsel for the National Labor Relations
Board in Washington, has been appointed
assistant dean of Washington and Lee
School of Law.

Walther’s appointment was announced
by W&L law school dean Frederic L. Kirgis
Jr., who also announced that Edward O.
Henneman, assistant dean since 1981, will
return to full-time teaching in the law
school while also occupying a newly-created
position of associate dean.

According to Kirgis, Walther will con-
centrate on admissions and financial aid
matters with some responsibility for student
counseling in her role as assistant dean. She
_ will assume her duties on July 1.

In the new position of associate dean,
Henneman will deal with student affairs,
primarily involving the interpretation and
application of academic rules.

“IT am delighted that we are making this
appointment,’’ Kirgis said. ‘‘Pat Walther
distinguished herself as a student here at
Washington and Lee, and I am confident
she will approach this new assignment with
skill and enthusiasm. Her presence will
allow Ned Henneman to return his full con-
centration to the classroom while also pro-
viding valuable assistance to me in other
important areas.”’

Walther received the juris doctor degree
from W&L in 1983. She is a 1979 graduate
of Duke University.

While at W&L, Walther was president of
the Women Law Students’ Organization
and served in the Legal Aid Society. She was
on the Washington and Lee Law Review.

 
 
  
   
 

 

 

    
 

Miss Ruth Parmly

During the summer of 1982, Walther at-
tended the Institute on International and
Comparative Law at Oxford University. She
served as an assistant clerk in the clerk’s of-
fice of the U.S. Supreme Court in the sum-
mer of 1981. Following her graduation from
Duke in 1979, she was a reporter and editor
for Commerce Clearing House, Inc., until
she enrolled at the W&L law school in 1980.

Henneman has been connected with
Washington and Lee since 1972 when he
joined the University as associate director
of development and adjunct professor of
law. He received his undergraduate degree
from Yale and a law degree from Harvard
and was associated with two New York law
firms before coming to Lexington.

He was named assistant professor of law
in 1978 and became assistant dean in 1981.

 

 

lowa professor named
computer science head

 

Theodore J. Sjoerdsma, chairman of the
computer science department at the Univer-
sity of lowa, has been appointed head of
the new computer science department at
Washington and Lee, effective September 1.

Sjoerdsma, 55, will hold the rank of
professor.

Washington and Lee decided last fall to
establish a department of computer science
and to add a major in computer science
beginning with the 1984-85 academic year.
Computer science becomes the 31st
undergraduate major at W&L.

“We are quite fortunate that Dr. Sjoerd-
sma has accepted this position,’’ said
William J. Watt, dean of the College (of
arts and sciences) at Washington and Lee.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

“He is a distinguished computer scientist
and educator. We consider him the ideal
person to develop this new major in com-
puter science.”’

A native of Grand Rapids, Mich.,
Sjoerdsma received his bachelor’s degree in
mathematics from Calvin College, his
master’s degree in mathematics from
Michigan State University, and his Ph.D. in
computer science from the University of
Iowa.

Sjoerdsma, who has been a teacher for
32 years, joined the computer science
department at the University of Iowa in
1968. He has been the chairman of that
department since January of 1978.

Among his special interests at lowa have
been the teaching of computer science as a
discipline with emphasis in the
undergraduate curriculum and the integra-
tion of computer usage in other academic
disciplines.

He has written several papers on topics
in computer science, including a 1978
publication entitled ‘A Liberal Arts Com-
puter Science Curriculum. ’’

He has served as a consultant to several
colleges and universities in the development
of computer science programs.

  
 
  

 

New pavilion to be built

Construction is expected to begin in
early June on a pavilion designed to provide
students with an on-campus facility for
social and recreational activities.

Plans call for the building, which is ex-
pected to cost between $582,000 and
$677,000, to be constructed on a site in the
pine woods north of Lewis Hall, about 500
feet from the Buildings and Grounds’
offices.

The pavilion will be available for
campus-wide social functions and will have
a capacity of between 1,000 and 1,200 peo-
ple. The steel-sided structure, featuring a
special composition floor able to withstand
potential cigarette burns, will also be
available to the athletic department
primarily for use as a foul-weather practice
facility. The structure will be long enough to
accomodate an indoor tennis court.

But the primary use of the pavilion will
be for social functions. The financing plan
calls for $25 of the student taxes from each
student for the next 25 years to be used as
the student contribution to the funding of
the building.

When completed and available for use

25

 

 
   
 
  
 
   

 
 
   

de Gazette

in the fall, the pavilion will alleviate pro-
blems with providing adequate facilities for
campus-wide social functions, many of
which had been held in Evans Hall.

Construction will be by the Bass Con-
struction Co. of Richmond, which
previously built the University Library and
renovated McCormick Hall, Graham-Lees
Dormitory, and Evans Hall.

 

Syd Farrar, 80, honored
for Grenada role

 

First Lt. Syd Farrar, ’80, who was
wounded on the Island of Grenada last Oc-
tober, has been awarded The Army Com-
mendation Medal for Valor.

 

Currently serving as the aide-de-camp to

Maj. Gen. Richard Scholtes of the Joint
Special Operations Command stationed at
Ft. Bragg, N.C., Farrar was tri-captain of
Washington and Lee’s football team in 1979
and was president of the Interfraternity
Council during his senior year.

The citation to Farrar read “For heroism
on 25 October 1983 while serving on the
Island of Grenada. After securing the
university and rescuing 150 American
students, Lieutenant Farrar led a patrol to
clear the high ground above the university
from where the enemy fire was originating.
He cleared the enemy’s position with an
airstrike and set up an observation position
on key terrain along the main road. He gave
a timely report of the enemy’s direction of
travel which allowed the defensive platoon
seconds to prepare for the attack. Lieute-
nant Farrar personally led a tank-killer par-
ty which resulted in the destruction of three
enemy vehicles. Lieutenant Farrar’s heroic
actions are in keeping with the finest

   
    
 

 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   

Judge Walter E. Hoffman, °31L

Hudson was injured when the car in
which he was riding struck a stalled vehicle.
The accident occurred on Thursday, April
12. He was spending the University’s spring
vacation in Florida. Hudson was the
nephew of Mr. and Mrs. Willard M. Hays
of Lexington. Mrs. Hays is an assistant pro-
fessor and reference and public services
librarian at Washington and Lee. A double
major in English and history, Hudson was a
dean’s list student and was active in the Col-
lege Republicans.

A memorial service for Hudson and
W&L sophomore Thomas J. Fellin was held
in Lee Chapel on April 17.

 

 

   

Hoffman, ’31L, honored

 

Judge Walter E. Hoffman, ’31L, senior
judge, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia, has been named a re-
cipient of the prestigious Devitt
Distinguished Service to Justice Award.

The award is given annually to a federal
judge deemed by the award committee to
have contributed most to the advancement
of the cause of justice.

Chief Justice Warren E. Burger of the
U.S. Supreme Court was given a special
award.

Judge Hoffman was recognized for his
outstanding work in judicial administrative
education and as former director of the
Federal Judicial Center in Washington.

He was appointed by President
Eisenhower in 1954 and served as chief
judge of the district court in the Eastern
District of Virginia for 12 years, where he

 

 

 

 

military traditions and reflects great credit

instituted many commendable improve-

 

upon him, the Ist Ranger Battalion and the

ments. He has long been chairman of the

 

United States Army.’”’
The citation is signed by John O. Marsh,
*S1L, who is secretary of the Army.

According to correspondence that Far-
rar has had with Washington and Lee pro-
fessors, his recovery is about 90 percent. He
was recently told by a doctor who attended
him in Grenada that he stopped breathing
twice and that a fourth bullet was found
embedded in the belt that he was wearing at
the time he was shot.

After learning of Farrar’s injury, the
W&L football team dedicated its week of
practice prior to the Catholic University
game to him and later presented him with
the game ball from that victory.

26

 
   

Judicial Conference Committee on
Criminal Rules and has served on other
conference committees. He also chairs the
Metropolitan Chief Judges Conference and
the Judicial Fellows Commission of the U.S.
Supreme Court.

 

 

Student dies in auto accident

 

Ruben R. Hudson Jr., 21, a Washington
and Lee junior from South Pittsburg, Tenn.,
died Saturday, April 14, in Sacred Heart
Hospital in Pensacola, Fla., as the result of
injuries he sustained in an automobile
accident.

Law Review names editors

 

Meredith Susan Palmer, a second-year
law student at Washington and Lee Univer- —
sity, has been named editor-in-chief of the
Washington and Lee Law Review for the
1984-85 academic year.

The Law Review is a legal periodical
managed and published by the students
under the auspices of the School of Law to
provide a medium for scholarly discussion
of important legal problems.

The student editors are chosen on the
basis of scholarship and aptitude for legal
research and writing.

Palmer is a 1982 graduate of Mary
Baldwin College where she majored in
political science. She is chairman of the Stu-
dent Bar Association’s curriculum commit-
tee and a member of Phi Alpha Delta pro-
fessional fraternity.

The lead articles editors will be Charles
A. (Buck) Blanchard of Richmond, a
graduate of the University of Colorado, and
Seth C. Prager of Rockville, Md., a
graduate of Western Maryland.

Bradford F. Englander of Los Angeles, a
graduate of the University of California at
Santa Barbara is the managing editor.

Other editors selected for the 1984-85
staff were:

Business editor: Anne-Marie Grande of
Wethersfield, Conn., and Tufts University;

Research editor: James R. Coffey of
Tulsa, Okla., and Vanderbilt University;

Executive editors: Jeffrey J. Giguere of
Cranston, R.I., and Rollins College;
Thomas C. Havens of Nesconset, N.Y., and
Duke University; Douglas G. Stanford of
Slidell, La., and Duke University; and,
Mary E. Madigan of Santa Maria, Calif.,
and the University of Massachusetts at
Boston.

Note and comment editors: Kevin J.

 
 

Buckley of Camp Hill, Pa., and the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame; John T. Murray of
Chatham, N.J., and the University of
Virginia; Stuart R. Kaplan of Laverock, Pa.,
and Franklin and Marshall; Bruce M.
Hatrak of Arlington, Va., and the College
of William and Mary; Samuel P. Thomas
Jr. of Upper Marlboro, Md., and Troy State
University; Richard B. Earls of Charlot-
tesville, Va., and Wake Forest University;
Peter B. Lewis of Bloomington, Ind., and
Indiana University; Albert F. Sebok of
Hudson, Ohio, and Albion College; Peter
G. Zemanian of Port Jefferson, N.Y., and
Colgate University; and, Jerry E. Farmer of
Huntsville, Ala., and the University of
Alabama at Huntsville.

intriguing.

The Mystic Warrior was based, in part,
on the best-selling novel, Hanta Yo, by Ruth
Beebe Hill. Mrs. Hill is the widow of
Washington and Lee alumnus Borroughs
Reid Hill, a 1931 W&L graduate who died in
1982. In honor of her husband, Mrs. Hill
established the Borroughs Reid Hill
Memorial Fund at Washington and Lee.
Gifts totaling about $16,000 have been
made to that Fund to date.

Included in that $16,000 is an unusual
and unexpected gift which came to the Fund
in February. It was in the form of a bequest
from the estate of a fullblood Santee Sioux
named Chunksa Yuha who died on
February 15 in Warrenton, Va., at the age of
79.

As it happens, Chunksa Yuha had been
the language collaborator for Hanta Yo. In
that capacity, he had spent more than 10

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Falwell and Tip
Richard
Reagan? And all of them singing and
dancing?

No, it wasn’t a dream. What it was was
Reagan Rex, a wild and crazy political satire
performed on a parade float parked in front
of the W&L Student Center.

Written by Washington and Lee drama
professor Albert C. Gordon and a product
of the University’s spring-term total theatre
class, Reagan Rex was presented between
the first two sessions of the Mock
Democratic Convention.

Delegates and convention spectators,
alumni and anyone who happened along
Washington Street, bellied up to the hand-
painted carnival wagon and joined in the
fun.

From Maureen Reagan’s sensuous rendi-
tion of “Let Me Entertain You” (as
presented by freshman Greg Lunsford of
Brownsburg, Va.) to the splendid imper-
sonation of Richard Nixon by sophomore
Derrick Freeman (all the more impressive
considering Freeman is a black student
from Birmingham), Reagan Rex was a
delightful spoof on politics and politicians.
According to Gordon, the idea was “‘to
political satire that

      
    
  
  
 
   

and

the oral argument portion
of the competition which was held Friday
(April 13) when the four finalists argued
cases before a bench of three distinguished
judges.

Doane is a 1966 graduate of Lynchburg
College where she majored in political
science and English.

Suter’s brief won the top honors in that
category. She graduated from James
Madison University in 1982 with a B.A.
degree in English.

The other finalists in the oral argument
part of the Burks Competition were: second
place, Eleanor A. Putnam of Fairfax, Va., a
graduate of Colby College; third place tie,
Jonnie L. Speight of Virginia Beach, a

ai

 

& Gazette

graduate of Old Dominion, and Michael J.
McLaughlin of Upper Darby, Pa., a
graduate of St. Joseph’s College.

Oral arguments were heard by Justice
Walter V. Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme
Court, current Judge-in-Residence at the
W&L Frances Lewis Law Center; Judge
Kenneth W. Starr of the District of Colum-
bia Circuit Court of Appeals; and, Judge
Harry W. Welford of the 6th Circuit Court
of Appeals.

The second place finisher in the brief
competition was Ken Perdue of Hunting-
ton, W.Va., a graduate of Marshall
University.

The top-ranking participants in the
Burks Moot Court Competition are eligible
to represent the W&L School of Law on its
National Moot Court Team and its Interna-
tional Law Moot Court Team.

Virginia Hall of Fame
Honors Marshall Johnson, ’42

Marshall Johnson, ’42, who retired in
December after 35 years with the Richmond
bureau of the Associated Press, was the
recipient of a special achievement award
from the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in
April. -

The Hall of Fame recognition was the
latest in a series of awards presented to
Johnson upon his retirement. Earlier he had
received plaques of recognition from the
Touchdown Club of Richmond and the
Virginia High School League.

_ Johnson began working for the
Associated Press’ Richmond bureau in 1959
and was named Virginia Sports Editor of
AP in 1970, a position he held until his
retirement.

So highly regarded was Johnson in
Virginia sports circles that the Virginia
High School League voted last March to
name the sportsmanship trophy given to six
basketball tournament teams, three boys’
teams and three girls’ teams, after him. The
Virginia High School Coaches Association
already presents an award named after
Johnson to the state’s top high school
writer.

 

 

Huntley named president, CEO
of Best Products Co., Inc.

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L, former
president of Washington and Lee, has been
named president and chief operating officer
of Best Products Co., Inc.

28

 

i;

Robert E. R. Huntley,

Huntley had joined Best in January as
executive vice president of the company and
president of the catalog showroom division.

The new appointment is part of a
general reorganization which was
precipitated by the decision of former W&L
Trustee Sydney Lewis, 40, ’43L, to step
down as chairman and chief executive of-
ficer of the Richmond-based firm.

_ Sydney Lewis will be succeeded by his
son, Andrew M. Lewis, who will, in turn, be
succeeded by Huntley.

Current W&L Trustee Frances Lewis,
who with her husband, Sydney, founded the
catalog showroom firm 27 years ago, will
continue as executive vice president. Sydney
Lewis will become chairman of the board’s
executive committee.

Rowes’ newspaper cited

In its April 30, 1984, issue, Time
magazine presented its choices of the 10
best daily newspapers in the United States.
As a companion piece to that rating, Time
wrote of several “Big Fish in Small Ponds,”’
smaller dailies and weeklies of note. Includ-
ed in that list was the Fredericksburg, Va.,
Free Lance-Star, published by two
Washington and Lee alumni: University
Trustee Charles Rowe, ’45, and his brother,
Josiah, ’48.

As Time, put it: “In Fredericksburg,
Brothers Charles and Josiah Rowe let their
33 staffers break free of routine meeting
coverage often enough to provide notewor-
thy series on local business development
and, in 1982, on corporate lobbying efforts
to win state approval of a uranium-mining

project. The paper has crusaded so long
about freedom of information that the city
council now routinely provides it with
copies of all the paperwork exchanged
among council members.”’

Coincidentally, several days before the
article appeared the publisher of another of
those smaller papers cited in the same
breath with the Rowes’, H. Brandt Ayers of
the Anniston, Ala., Star, had visited Lex-
ington in connection with the efforts of
W&L alumnus Don Baker, 68, to establish
a new theatre in the city.

Archaeologists find
19th-century commuters

During the 19th century, numerous set-
tlements were established in the hollows of
the western Virginia mountains. The
popular perception has always held that the
residents of those hollows lived a somewhat
hermit-like existence in virtual isolation
from the rest of society.

But data collected and examined as part
of a continuing study conducted by
Washington and Lee University’s Ar-
chaeology Laboratory indicate that the self-
sufficiency of those inhabitants and their
isolation from the rest of society have been
exaggerated.

A team of professors and students under
the direction of W&L professor John
McDaniel has been investigating approx-
imately 100 “high hollow” archaeological
sites for the past four years. Currently their
examinations center on Anderson Hollow
in Rockbridge County.

The team’s findings include artifacts |
that provide irrefutable testimony to a
regular and heavy dependence on goods
from both local and more distant sources
on the part of those 19th-century hollow
dwellers.

In a paper presented at a session of The
Second Symposium on Uplands Ar-
cheology in the East in March at James
Madison University, McDaniel and W&L
junior Randall Ray reported on the degree
to which inhabitants of the hollows had
been dependent on jobs at the nearby iron
mines as well as the spas and resorts in the
area.

According to McDaniel and Ray, those
hollow dwellers commuted daily from their
homes to work in the iron mines or at one
of the many spas in the area, particularly
the spa at Rockbridge Alum Springs.

In addition to participating in the area
economy by holding jobs at those concerns,
the hollow dwellers often would take the

 

  
   
 
  
 
 

   

 

goods that they grew or made in the hollows
to the nearby iron mines and spas to be
sold.

McDaniel and Ray have shown that such
“homemade” items as pickax handles and
such “homegrown” items as fresh
vegetables, milk, and beef were taken on a
daily basis from the hollows to the mines
and spas where these goods were sold to
miners and to visitors and workers at the
spas.

The paper delivered by McDaniel and
Ray was one of six papers delivered at a ses-
sion of the symposium entitled “Historic
Sites Archaeology in the Uplands.’’ That
entire session was devoted to work con-
ducted by Washington and Lee professors,
students, and alumni.

e James Adams, W&L survey ar-
chaeologist, delivered a paper on the
research design for the project.

¢ Michael Gregory, a 1983 W&L
graduate and currently a student at Arizona
State University, examined a 19th century
upland farm. That paper was read by W&L
sophomore Ted Goebel.

¢ Kurt Russ, a 1978 W&L graduate and
a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Ten-
nessee, delivered a paper on domestic
ceramics.

¢ Parker Potter, a 1981 graduate anda
graduate student at Brown University,
discussed ways in which archaeology should
be presented to the public.

_ © Jack Delany, a W&L senior, presented
a paper on the use of chemical analysis in
the examination of land use and soil deple-
tion in the upland sites.

    
 
 
 

 
 

 

International Moot Court Team
wins national honor

 

The Jessup International Law Moot
Court team from the Washington and Lee
University School of Law has won the na-
tional award for the best memorial in the
American semifinal round of the interna-
tional competition.

The award, recognizing the best written
brief or argument, came during competi-
tion in Washington, D.C., among teams
representing law schools from throughout
the nation.

The W&L team’s memorial now will
enter international competition featuring
law schools throughout the world.

Sponsored by the American Society of
International Law, the international com-
petition involves teams of law students who

argue a hypothetical case before the interna-

tional court of justice. Both oral and writ-

ten arguments are part of the competition.

Washington and Lee’s team is composed
of second-year students Philip R. Brown of
Granville, N-Y., Paul F. Fletcher III of Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., Ellen H. Gray of
Chesapeake, Va., David B. Poole of
Hagerstown, Md., and Patricia A. Shean of
Arlington, Va.

Myra L. Sanderson, a third-year student
from Rainsville, Ala., is the team’s coach.
Earlier this year W&L’s team won the
regional competition for the sixth con-
secutive year.

   

 

Rogers awarded fellowship

 

 

Minor L. Rogers, associate professor of
religion has been awarded a fellowship by

the National Endowment for Humanities to
participate in an NEH Summer Seminar for

College Teachers.
The seminar, “Scripture: Its Nature and
Evolving Role,’’ will be held at Harvard
University from June 25 to August 17 under
the direction of Wilfred Cantwell Smith,
professor of the comparative history of
religion and chairman of Harvard’s pro-
gram in religious studies.

NEH Summer Seminars for College
Teachers are intended for teachers in
undergraduate colleges who are concerned
primarily with improving their knowledge
of the subjects they teach. Participants are
chosen on the basis of their quality and
commitment as college teachers, their
qualification to do the work of the seminar
and make a contribution to it, and their
proposed programs of personal study.
The seminar in which Rogers will be

 

Minor L. Rogers

 

participating will inquire into the role that
scripture has played in a variety of
traditions—Jewish, Christian, Islamic,
Graeco-Roman Classical, Hindu, Buddhist,
and Confucian—in an effort to clarify the
meaning of “scripture” as a generic term.

Rogers will present materials from his
research in the Japanese Pure Land Shin
Buddhist tradition.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1972, Rogers is preparing a
major study of 15th-century Japanese
religious leader Rennyo Shonin, who laid
the foundations in medieval Japan for the
emergence of the Shin Pure Land sect as the
most influential religious movement in
Japanese history.

He has written several articles on the
Shin Pure Land sect and last year con-
tributed a chapter to a volume on Pure
Land Buddhist thought which was publish-
ed in Japan.

Rogers has previously been a participant
in a group research grant from the National
Endowment for the Humanities for a three-
year project entitled “Buddhism in
Japanese Civilization: Humanistic In-
quiries.’’ He has received grants for
research from the Japan Foundation and
the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

Rogers received his bachelor’s degree
from Virginia Military Institute. He earned
the bachelor’s of divinity degree from the
Virginia Theological Seminary and the
Ph.D. degree from Harvard University. He
served as director of Washington and Lee’s
East Asian Studies Program from 1980 to
1983.

 
        
     
 

       
  
  
  
 
     
 
   
 
      
 

 

ROTC awards

Richard B. Jones, a Washington and Lee
University senior from Atlanta, has been
named the Outstanding Cadet in the
University’s Army ROTC corps.

Jones received the University sabre from
Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson during the annual President’s Day
Awards Ceremony on Wednesday (March
21) in Lee Chapel. The Outstanding Cadet
Award is determined by a vote of the W&L
Corps of Cadets.

Eric G. Storey, a senior from West
Chester, Pa., received the Major Ronald O.
Scharnberg Memorial Award, which
recognizes the W&L cadet who most nearly
typifies the Washington and Lee tradition
of citizen-scholar-soldier.

Andrew J. MacLellan, a senior from
Flemington, N.J., won the George C. Mar-
shall ROTC Award, which is awarded to the

29

 

 

de Gazette

senior who demonstrates those leadership
and scholastic qualities that epitomized the
career of General Marshall.

Lt. Col. David F. Flower, Jr., professor
of military science at Washington and Lee,
presided over the ceremony. Col. Fowler will
complete his three-year assignment as head
of W&L’s corps of cadets in May.

Other awards presented during the
ceremony were:

MILITARY ORDER OF THE WORLD
WARS AWARDS: John T. Wiltse, freshman
from West Hartford, Conn.; John J.
Loughery, sophomore from Huntington,
N.Y.; Gregory A. Lukanuski, junior from
Mechanicsburg, Pa.; Malcolm C. Kendall,
senior from Chapel Hill, N.C.

VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF
THE USA AWARDS: Thomas R. Murray
Ill, freshman from Princeton, N.J.; Charles
A. Pfaff Jr., sophomore from Charleston,
S.C.; E. Marshall Bowden, junior from Lyn-
chburg, Va.; Paul N. Farquharson, senior
from Ft. Meade, Md.

THE NATIONAL SOJOURNERS
AWARD: Peter J. Ierardi, sophomore from
Philadelphia.

GENERAL SOCIETY OF THE WAR
OF 1812 AWARD: Anthony D. McCann,
Huntington, N-Y.

AMERICAN VETERANS OF
WORLD WAR II AWARD: Scott G.
Nagley, sophomore from Martinsburg,
W.Va.

SONS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION AWARD: John R. Maass,
freshman from Fairfield, Va.

DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION AWARD: James T. Seidule,
senior from Mobile, Ala.

ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED

  
  

 

  

 

30

A potpourri of campus speakers (from left) consumer advocate Ralph Nader, Rev. Jerry Falwell, and former U.S. Representative Yvonne Brathwaite Burke

STATES ARMY ROTC GOLD MEDAL
AWARD: David D. Branscomb, junior from
Fincastle, Va.

ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED
STATES ARMY ROTC AWARD: Thomas
J. Fellin, sophomore from Weston, Pa.

AMERICAN LEGION AWARDS:
Military excellence—Mark A. Bertolini,
sophomore from Bellerose, N.Y.; John D.
Cole, senior from Elberton, Ga. Scholastic
excellence—David E. McGehee, junior
from Brownsboro, Ala.; Donald B. Smith,
senior from San Antonio, Texas.
DAUGHTERS OF THE FOUNDERS
AND PATRIOTS AWARD: Ron L. Moody,
sophomore from Brewton, Ala.

RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
OF THE UNITED STATES AWARD:

Stephen E. Vogt, sophomore from

Baltimore; Robert J. Tomaso, junior from
Milford, Mass.; Timothy P. Rock, senior
from Pittsburgh.

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SUPERIOR CADET DECORATION

AWARDS: Thomas J. Boyd, freshman from ~

Winchester, Va.; Arthur A. Kandarian,
sophomore from Cumberland, R.I.; Kevin
H. Kelley, junior from San Antonio, Texas;
Edward J. O’Brien, senior from Norwich,
N.Y.

   

 

Jones wins Fulbright

 

Stephen A. Jones, a Washington and
Lee University senior from Wilmington,
Del., has been awarded a Fulbright Scholar-
ship for graduate study in Germany.

Jones will spend 10 months studying at
the University of Regensburg in Germany.

    
 
    
     

He plans to study political economy with
particular emphasis on the influence of
public policy on private enterprise.

Jones becomes the 14th Washington and
Lee student to receive a Fulbright Scholar-
ship in the past seven years.

Candidates for a Fulbright must have a
high scholastic average and the equivalent
of two years of college work in the language
of the country where they wish to study.
The Fulbright program awards some 500
scholarships annually for graduate study in
about 58 foreign countries.

A double major in English and German,
Jones is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
has consistently made the University’s
honor roll with a grade-point average of at
least 3.5 on a 4.0 scale.

He has served as a Robert E. Lee
Scholarship Assistant and was the 1982 win-
ner of the Stump Prize in German. He isa
member of W&Ls intercollegiate golf team.

 

    
  
 

 

Cecil awarded Mednick Grant

 

Washington and Lee University history
professor Lamar Cecil Jr. has been awarded
a research grant from the Maurice L. Med-
nick Fund for study this summer in
Germany.

The Mednick Fund is administered by
the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges (VFIC), a joint fund-raising con-
sortium of 14 four-year private colleges in
the state, including W&L.

Cecil, who is the William R. Kenan Jr.
Professor of History at W&L, will use the
Mednick grant to complete research on the
first volume of a two-volume biography of

 

William II, the last German Kaiser.

He will conduct research in various ar-
chives in both Koblenz and Berlin.

Formerly professor of history at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Cecil has written two books on sub-
jects of German history —‘Albert Ballin:
Business and Politics in Imperial Germany”
and “The German Diplomatic Service,
1871-1914.”’

A native of Beaumont, Texas, Cecil
received the B.A. degree from Rice Universi-
ty and the Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

Cecil joined the faculty at Washington
and Lee in 1982 and was named to the
Kenan Professorship in 1983.

The Mednick Memorial Fund was
created in 1967 after the accidental death of
a young Norfolk industrialist. His family
and business associates established the fund
to perpetuate his name and to recognize his
own strong interest in higher education.

The VFIC administers the fund to en-
courage the professional development of
college teachers and improve their com-
petence through grants for research and ad-
vanced study and to assist highly qualified,
needy students in the upperclass years in
college.

 

Faculty activities

 

e Art history professor Gerard Maurice
Doyon gave a slide-lecture at the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond in
March. Entitled “‘The Influence of the
Camera on Nineteenth-Century Art in
France and Britain,’’ Doyon’s presentation
was part of the Virginia Museum’s annual
patron’s dinner. It was the fourth time
Doyon has been guest speaker at the event.

e Toni M. Massaro, assistant professor
of law, is the co-author of an article
published in the Winter 1983 edition of the
William and Mary Law Review. Massaro
and Thomas L. O’Brien, a partner in the
Chicago law firm of Vedder, Price, Kauf-
man and Kammholz, wrote the article en-
titled “Constitutional Limitations on State-
_ Imposed Continuing Competency Re-
quirements for Licensed Professionals.”’
The article deals with such issues as
substantive due process, procedural due
process, and equal protection.

e An economic loss case spawned by the
kepone disaster was the subject of an article
by two Washington and Lee law professors
published in the November 1983 issue of the
Virginia Law Review. Andrew W. McThenia
and Joseph E. Ulrich wrote the article en-
titled “A Return to Principles of Corrective

History professor Lamar Cecil at work on the front campus

Justice in Deciding Economic Loss Cases.”’
In their article McThenia and Ulrich
conclude that the court’s concern for cor-
rective justice—that is, accomplishing
justice between individual litigants—was

found to be more important than considera-

tions of precedential rulemaking and
economic efficiency.

¢ Two Washington and Lee drama pro-
fessors gave presentations at the
Southeastern Theatre Conference in Alex-
andria, Va., in March. Staging sword fights

in Shakespeare plays was the topic of a lec-

ture/demonstration given by assistant
drama professor Joseph Martinez who also
lectured on ‘An Actor’s Director: Means of
Translating Directorial Concept into
Dramatic Action.”’

Albert C. Gordon, head of the depart-
ment of fine arts and professor of drama,
gave a presentation and participated ina
discussion on the role of the drama major
in a liberal arts university at the same con-
ference and presided over the session at
which Martinez demonstrated directorial
techniques.

e A Washington and Lee German pro-
fessor has been named alternate for the
1984 Grawemeyer Faculty Award by the
University of Louisville.

David B. Dickens, associate professor of
German at W&L, was selected as alternate
in the competition sponsored by the
Department of Classical and Modern
Languages at the University of Louisville.

One Grawemeyer Award is made an-
nually to faculty from an eight-state area

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
       
  
  

who compete via the submission of a pro-
posal which promotes or provides for the
sharing of knowledge between German-
speaking Europe and the United States.

In naming Dickens as alternate, David
Hershberg of the University of Louisville
noted that Dickens had ‘“‘achieved signifi-
cant distinction through his selection as
alternate in this rigorous competition which
attracted scores of strong applications. ”’

e Jim Murdock, assistant athletic
trainer and head baseball coach, has been
appointed to the National Athletic Trainers
Association Board of Certification as an
examiner.

e Two Washington and Lee art pro-
fessors presented papers at the Seventh
Symposium for Virginia Art Historians in
March at Longwood College in Farmville,
Va.

Gerard Maurice Doyon, professor of art
history, delivered a paper entitled “‘E. V.
Valentine and Robert E. Lee” as the keynote
address for the symposium. I-Hsiung Ju,
professor of art and artist-in-residence, gave
a paper on “The Fine Arts in Mainland
China Today.’’

e Hampden H. Smith III, associate pro-
fessor of journalism, participated in two
professional conferences in March and
April. He was a panelist for a panel discus-
sion on media ownership concentration at
the Virginia Social Science Association’s
57th annual meeting at the University of
Virginia in Charlottesville and also
moderated the newspaper division papers
presentation at the Southeastern regional

31

  
   

    
  
 
   

 

&h Gazette

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

meeting of the Association for Education in
Journalism and Mass Communications at
Hampton, Va.

e Two Washington and Lee professors
were seminar leaders for the Richmond
Regional Conference of the Investigative
Reporters and Editors in Clark

    
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

the 19th-
1900 to
of the
century.

at the

  
  

  
 

1936;

 
 

annual meeting of the Southern
Sociological Society held in Knoxville,
Tenn., in April.

e Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the
School of Law, has been elected to the
board of editors of the American Journal of
International Law, the leading interna-
tional law journal in the world. A specialist
in the field of international law and the
author of an important new study in that
area, Kirgis will be one of 24 practicing in-
ternational lawyers and professors of inter-

32

Ethics

 
   

University of Virginia, Tom Paulin of Not-
tingham University in England, and Lucille
Clifton of Baltimore.

e The Amadeus Winds, a classical wind
ensemble, appeared in March as the final
program of the 1983-84 Washington and
Lee Concert Guild season.

e The University Theatre presented Ten-
nessee Williams’ Cat on a Hot Tin Roof as
its winter term production. Senior drama
major Drew Perkins directed the play, which
featured W&L senior Bob Ferguson of
Katonah, N.Y., and first-year W&L law stu-
dent Nan Korns of Brookfield, Wis., in lead

 
 
  
   
 
   
  

> *

(center) leads a session of the first annual Business

 

 

 

 

 

by Mark Mandel

Sports Information Director

Scholar-Athlete

Graves Honored by NCAA, Old Dominion Athletic Conference

It is difficult to imagine a person more
deserving of the title ‘““Scholar-Athlete”
than Washington and Lee senior John Lee
Graves.

Throughout his four years at W&L he
has consistently given the optimum effort
and has achieved the highest goals both in
the classroom and on the basketball court.

Graves has earned a 3.66 cumulative
grade-point average in chemistry while
leading the basketball team to four con-
secutive winning seasons. In 1983-84 he
served as captain and led the Generals in
every important statistical category.

For his efforts on the basketball court,
he was rewarded with All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference (ODAC), All-State,
and All-South Atlantic honors. For his
achievements in both athletics and
academics he earned the ODAC’s highest
honor, the Scholar-Athlete Award, and was
recognized for his extraordinary ac-
complishments by his selection to receive
the coveted NCAA Postgraduate
Scholarship.

Graves, who will attend the University
of Virginia Medical School next fall, is one
of along line of W&L athletes to win the
prestigious scholarship. He is the second
basketball player in two years to be named
for the award. Brian Hanson, ’83, was an
NCAA scholarship winner last year.
Overall, W&L has had 12 student-athletes
earn the award, the second highest total
among Division III institutions.

Graves is one of only four Division II
and III student-athletes selected for the
honor, which carries a $2,000 stipend.

Though he is the eptiome of the term
“‘scholar-athlete,’’ Graves is by no means
the only Washington and Lee student who
genuinely fits that description. For instance,
the Generals’ basketball team had nine of
14 players named to the dean’s list for the
1983 winter term. The team had a combined
grade-point average of 3.17.

“I am extremely proud for John Lee and
for our entire basketball program,’’ said
Washington and Lee head basketball coach
Verne Canfield. “Any W&L student who
also competes in intercollegiate athletics has
enormous demands on his time and energy.
It is a tribute to John Lee that he was able to
excel in the important things in his life.

John Lee Graves in action

“In my 20 years here I have never seen
any student accomplish so much in both
academics and athletics.’’

Graves will pursue a career in either or-
thopedics or sports medicine. He is grateful
that Washington and Lee provided him with
an opportunity to excel in both academics
and athletics.

“If you are serious about your goals,
W&L will allow you the chance to flourish
in any endeavor you choose to follow,’’ said
Graves. “Athletically, I can’t say enough
about the coaching and guidance I was
given by Coach Canfield. He helped me set
my priorities by always stressing that

 

academics had to come first. At the same
time he was demanding in what we gave to
the basketball program in terms of the
hours we spent at practice or in a game.”
kkk

Washington and Lee’s track and field
team and its coach, Norris Aldridge, pulled
off double victories this year. In the winter
the Generals won the ODAC Indoor Cham-
pionships and their mentor was named
Coach of the Year. This spring, on the
strength of its team depth, W&L duplicated
its winter effort by again taking home both
trophies.

Undefeated (7-0) in the regular season,

33

 

 

 

 

Scholar-Athlete

W&L had just five winners in the 17 events
at the ODAC meet but came through with
three second-place finishes, five thirds, and
three fourths en route to the victory.

‘“‘This may not have been my most
talented team but it was my best,’’ said
Aldridge. ‘“‘Every individual had his role on
the team, and everyone pulled his own
weight. Track meets are won by everyone
giving his best effort, regardless of whether
that results in winning.”’

Senior Angus McBryde (Charlotte,
N.C.) set an ODAC record in winning the
1,500 meters (3:58.7) and came back with
little rest to capture the 5,000 meters
(15:24.1). Sophomore Townes Pressler
(Houston) won the high jump (6-4)
and sophomore Bill Rhinehart (San Fran-
cisco) won the triple jump (45-11). The mile
relay team was also victorious.

The baseball Generals (11-12 overall)
started sluggishly but turned into the
ODAC’s hottest team down the stretch run
toward the conference championship. The
Generals, on the strength of some timely
hitting and behind the right arm of junior
Billy White (Richmond) finished the regular
season in fifth place but upset Eastern Men-
nonite, 1-0, in 11 innings in the quarterfinals
and No. 1 seed Randolph-Macon, 9-7, in
the semifinals before losing to Lynchburg,
4-1, in the championship game.

White, who finished with a 6-2 record
and a 1.50 ERA, pitched 374 innings
without allowing an earned run before giv-
ing up the losing runs in the final game.

Senior shortstop Dave Warrenfeltz
(Smithsburg, Md.) led the team in batting
with a .361 average and was named to the
All-ODAC first team for his efforts.

The W&L tennis team (12-7) came up
short in its quest to repeat as ODAC cham-
pions, finishing second behind Lynchburg.
The Generals had four singles players in the
finals but just one—freshman Roby Mize
(Dallas) —came out a winner. Craig Cannon
(Ocala, Fla.) teamed with Mize to win the
first-flight doubles championship, and both
players represented W&L at the NCAA
Division III Tournament as singles players
and as a double team.

The golf team (4-1-1) could not puts its
collective game together and finished in
third place in the ODAC Championship

34

 

Pitcher Billy White

Rod Santomassimo prepares to fire home a goal.

Tournament. Senior Bruce Blythe
(Louisville) and sophomore Turner Fried-
man (Charleston, W.Va.) shot 155s and
earned All-ODAC status. Blythe played in
the NCAA Division III Tournament.

The General lacrosse team’s 5-9 record
was not what first-year head coach Dennis
Daly had hoped for, certainly. But Daly
believes a lot was accomplished and that the
W&L program has a bright future.

‘Both the players and the coaching staff
had a lot to learn about each other ina
minimum amount of time;’ said Daly. ““We
made some mistakes and maybe lost some
games that we should have won. However,
we showed some signs of brilliance in some
games. If we can become more consistent, I
am confident W&L can be a competitive
Division I team.”’

The Generals got their scoring punch
from the attackmen. Senior Lee Heimert
(Towson, Md.) had 30 goals and 13 assists
while junior Rod Santomassimo (Stony
Brook, N.Y.) contributed 22 goals and 14
assists. Senior defenseman Tim Schurr
(Yorktown Heights, N-Y.) was consistently
outstanding, picking up 155 ground balls.

 

Chapter News

 

ALBUQUERQUE—An April reception in the home of AAP chairman
Ron Randel, ’61, welcomed New Mexico’s new W&L student, Sam Oben-
shain, and his parents who are shown with Dr. Harrison Alley, ’60, (left).

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—Attending the reception at the
Poinsett Club in Greenville were (left to right) Harry R. (Steve) Stephen-
son Jr, ’40L, Charles P. Didier, ’42, James E. Lipscomb III, ’58, and
James F: Gallivan, 751.

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT. The chapter held a cocktail
reception on March 5 at the Poinsett Club in Greenville. President
Lang Donkle, ’74, was in charge of the affair. University Trustee
Jimmy Gallivan, ’51, a native of Greenville, was a special guest
and speaker.

JACKSONVILLE. The Timuquana Country Club was the gather-
ing point for a large crowd of alumni, parents and guests on
March 7. Most of the crowd had an opportunity to meet and chat
with President John Wilson in small groups during the cocktail
hour. The reception concluded with a drawing for the door prize,
a Washington and Lee arm chair. Treasurer Jim Overton, ’75,
directed the raffle. Chapter President Bill Gatlin, ’71, introduced
President Wilson and other special guests who included Buddy
Atkins, ’68, and Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, from the University; Royce
Hough, ’59, University Trustee, who has recently joined the
Jacksonville Chapter; and William Mills, a trustee of the Jessie
Ball duPont Trust, and Mrs. Mills.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. The chapter was host to 120 alumni,
guests and friends who welcomed President John Wilson to the
area on March 8. Chapter President Jim Davis, ’79, presided over

 

 

JACKSONVILLE—Gathered at the Timuquana Country Club were (left
to right) Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, Frank Surface, 60, Haywood Ball, ’61, and
Bill Morris, ’81.

 

JACKSONVILLE—Others attending the meeting were (left to right)
Judge and Mrs. Lamar Winegeart, ’52L, and Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Weedon,
70.

the meeting at Tampa’s University Club. University Trustee Tom
Touchton, ’60, of Tampa, introduced President Wilson who was
accompanied on the visit by Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant secretary
of the Alumni Association.

RICHMOND. The chapter held a reception March 11 for approx-
imately 60 alumni and spouses and a group of about 20 W&L ap-
plicants and their parents at the Best Products Co. headquarters
building. The 50-member W&L Glee Club and the smaller
“Southern Comfort” both performed for the audience, which in-
cluded Trustee Frances Lewis and Trustee Emeritus Sydney Lewis,
’40. Chapter President Bill Garrison, ’76, Vice President Bob
Priddy, ’67, and AAP Chairman Glenn Moore, ’69, coordinated
arrangments, including a tour of the 350-piece art college in the
Best Products building. The Glee Club was in Richmond to per-
form a concert at the Boulevard United Methodist Church.

PALMETTO. The annual chapter meeting was held March 22 at
the Palmetto Club in Columbia, S.C. Approximately 24 alumni
plus their spouses and dates enjoyed a reception prior to the elec-
tion of the following chapter officers: Les Cotter, ’80, president;
Will Newton, ’70, vice president; David Fischer, ’82, treasurer; and

35

 

 

 

 

Chapter News

John Hamilton, ’80, secretary. Elected to serve on the chapter
board were: Jay Nexsen, ’76, immediate past president; Russell
Plowden, ’81; Tom Bryant, ’59, ’61L; Leon Garber, ’44; and Mike
Burnette, ’79.

CLEVELAND. On March 27 the chapter welcomed President
John Wilson to Cleveland with a reception and dinner at the
Union Club. The affair was attended by Farris Hotchkiss}58,
director of development; Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary; and Johnnie DeWilde, ’83L, the first W&L alumna to
move to Cleveland. Sid Kaplan, ’56, president of the chapter and a
member of the W&L Alumni Board, with help from Tom Goss,
80, head of the local alumni admissions program, made the ar-
rangements for the evening. Former president of the Alumni
Association, Charlie Clarke, ’38, introduced President Wilson.

CHICAGO. Tim Haley, ’73, chapter president, arranged a recep-
tion and dinner for area alumni to greet President John Wilson at
the Chicago Bar Association Building on March 28. President
Wilson was accompanied by Farris Hotchkiss, 58, and Buddy
Atkins, 68, from the University. After dinner Haley presented
several ideas for increased chapter activity and alumni admissions
recruitment work and acknowledged the special contributions of
past officers such as Paul Rhoads, ’62, and Sandy Walton, ’62,
°65L, who is now a member of the Alumni Board of Directors. He
then introduced President Wilson for his remarks.

LYNCHBURG. Approximately 100 chapter members gathered at
the Radisson Hotel on March 29 to honor Dean William J. Watt
and to discuss coeducation. Watt, who steps down this June after
13 years as Dean of the College, was presented the 1984 Lynchburg
Citation, an award given annually to a person or persons who
have made outstanding contributions to the spirit and substance
of W&L. Chapter President Mark Schewel, ’69, presented a fram-
ed citation to Watt. That presentation followed a panel program
on the coeducation issue featuring prepared comments by two
students and two alumni. Moderated by Alumni Board member
Dr. Ed Calvert, ’44, the panelists supporting the admission of
undergraduate women were senior Mike Killea of Freeport, NY.,
and Fred Rowe, ’44; opposing coeducation were Student Body
President Bob Jenevein of Dallas and Ted Craddock, 69. The at-
tendance of both Watt and University Trustee Gordon Leggett,
54, aided the discussion on several key points during an ensuing
question-and-answer session. In other chapter business, new
officers unaminously elected were Lea Booth, ’40, president; Tom
Pettyjohn, ’68, vice president; and Stuart Fauber, ’70.

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA. The Chatmoss Country Club between
Martinsville and Danville was the site of the chapter’s reception
and dinner meeting on March 22. Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
University relations and development, spoke to the nearly 50
alumni, spouses and dates. Chapter President Bob Vaughan, ’79L,
led the meeting. Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms was also in atten-
dance. President John Wilson will address the Southside Chapter
on November 15.

TIDEWATER. The chapter held its annual oyster roast on March
24 at Bayville Farms. Professor Lou Hodges and his wife, Helen,
and Dick and Sally Sessoms joined the Tidewater area alumni in
devouring the feast. Chapter President Dick Phillips, ’76, John
Richard, ’70, and numerous other alumni contributed to the
arrangements. |

36

 
       
    
    
    

“SS

FLORIDA WEST COAST—Among the 120 alumni gathered at Tampa’s
University Club were (left to right) Harry George, °36, Jim Davis, ’79,
Mrs. Dinkel, and John Dinkel, ’61, ’64L.

RICHMOND-—A large portrait of Frances and Sydney Lewis which hangs
in the Best Products headquarters provides the backdrop for (left to right)
Roger Day, ’85, Jeff Wells, ’84, and Greg Haynes, °84.

CLEVELAND-—Sid Kaplan, 56, Bob Silverman, ’73, and Gary Okin,
74, (left to right) chat during the March 27 meeting at the Union Club.

CHICAGO—Chapter President Tim Haley, ’73, (right) organized the
March 28 reception and dinner which Dave Stone, ’72, (left) and Kenford
Marchant, ’62, attended.

 

5

 

CHICAGO— Others gathered at the Chicago Bar Association Building
were (left to right) Scott McLam, ’80, Bill Cranshaw, ’78, and Jim Lan-
caster, ’79.

 

LYNCHBURG—Dean William J. Watt (left) receives the 1984 Lynchburg
Citation from Chapter President Marc Schewel, ’69.

LYNCHBURG—Ted Craddock, ’68, agrees “the chapter president’s hat
isn’t big enough” for Lea Booth, *40.

CHARLESTON, W.VA. Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48L, of
Philadelphia addressed a combined meeting of the Charleston
and Tri-State (based in Huntington) alumni chapters on April 6.
Approximately 100 persons gathered at the Edgewood Country
Club for the reception and dinner arranged by Charleston chapter
officers Ben Bailey, ’75, president; Henry Jernigan, ’72, ’75L, vice
president; and, Fred Belden, ’60, secretary-treasurer. Bailey in-
troduced Farris Hotchkiss, Bill Washburn, and Dick Sessoms,

who represented the University and then called on Trustee Ike
Smith, ’57, ’60L, of Charleston to introduce Rector Ballengee,

who is a native of Charleston. Ballengee discussed the Trustees’
coeducation study and participated in a candid question-and-
answer session afterwards.

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD. The chapter entertained Presi-
dent John Wilson and incoming freshmen from the area with their

 

 

 

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA—Shown at the Chatmoss Country Club are
Louis McFadden, ’76, ’79L, and Wanda and Bob Vaughan, ’79L, chapter
president.

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Enjoying the reception were Kemp Morton, ’59,
*64L, Ben Bailey, ’75, Betty Belden, and Amanda Cox.

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Fred Belden, ’60, (center) renews acquaintances
with Thornton Berry, ’34, (left) and Holmes Morrison, ’63, ’67L, at the
April 6 meeting.

parents at a reception and dinner on April 12 at the Indian Har-
bor Yacht Club in Greenwich, Conn. After dinner Chris
Burnham, ’80, chapter president, made some brief remarks and
then introduced President Wilson. Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, also attended the meeting.

ARKANSAS. More than 80 alumni gathered at the Little Rock
Country Club on April 25 to meet President John Wilson. The
event was organized by chapter President Lee Thalheimer, ’73,
and Chapter Treasurer Roddy McCaskill, ’75, along with Bill Ber-
rington, 60, who is manager of the Little Rock Country Club.
Others in attendance were Bill Norman, ’56, an Alumni Board
member; former national Alumni Association President Everett
Tucker, ’34; and, Warren Stephens, ’79, the Alumni-Admissions
Program chairman for the area. President Wilson provided a com-
prehensive report of campus activities to the chapter. Also

37

 

 

 

 

Chapter News

  

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD—Dick Warren, ’53, (left) and Don Far-
riss, 57, (center) listen intently to Chet Smith, °53.

 

   

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD—Gathered at the Indian Harbor Yacht
Club were Mrs. Castle, Gray Castle, ’53, ?55L, and Chris Burnham, ’80.

representing the University were Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, and Dick
Sessoms.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. A good turnout of 60 alumni and
friends welcomed President John Wilson to Northwest Louisiana
on April 24. Chapter President Archer Frierson, ’73, presided over
the reception and dinner meeting at the Shreveport Country Club.
Frierson paid tribute to the student recruiting efforts of AAP
chairman Haller Jackson III, ’73, before introducing President
Wilson for a wide-ranging report on the University.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY. Alumni from the Northern New
Jersey area gathered at Baltusrol Golf Club on April 13 for a
meeting with President John Wilson. Chapter President Russ
Hewit, ’74, ’77L made arrangements and directed the program,
which included a report on the Alumni-Admissions Program from
AAP chairman Kirk Kirkpatrick, ’41. Hewit introduced President
Wilson for remarks on the state of the University.

PHILADELPHIA. Washington and Lee alumni of the
Philadelphia area held their annual reception for W&L-accepted
high school seniors and their parents on April 11 at the Free
Quaker Meeting House. Alumni were on hand to answer ques-
tions about the University and to encourage the young men pres-
ent to enroll.

JACKSONVILLE. Washington and Lee alumni from the
Jacksonville area joined their fellow alumni from Carolina and
Virginia for the annual joint cocktail party for the three groups.
The event took place on April 27 at The Seminole Club in
downtown Jacksonville.

38

      
    
   

vi

ARKANSA S—A mong those welcoming President Wilson to “Razorback
Country” were Clair Norman, Bill Norman, ’56, and Everett Tucker, ’34.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—G. Archer Frierson, ’73, chapter president,
and his wife greet President Wilson.

 
    

NORTHERN NEW JERSE Y—Chapter President Russ Hewit, 74, °77L
(center) confers with AAP chairman Kirk Kirkpatrick, °41 (right) and Bob
Chiaviello, ’77.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Attending the meeting at the Baltusrol
Golf Club were Slade Carter, ’55, and Jim Dawson, ’68.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 714.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms _ All black lacquer
$145.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va. $140.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

1922

W. HENRY TROTTER was named “Man of the Year”’
by the Kiwanis Club of Chattanooga. He retired in
1963 from the insurance agency he helped found
there. Trotter has been a volunteer worker for the
United Way every year since 1926, a trustee and
chairman of the board of the Girl’s Preparatory
School and an active member of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church, the Rotary Club, the Red Cross and the
Moccasin Bend Girl Scout Council. As president and
treasurer since 1965 with no paid staff, he still serves
the Dora Maclellan Brown Charitable Trust five
mornings per week. The Trust supports Christian
evangelism at more than 75 schools, colleges and
universities. Trotter and his wife of 57 years,
Charlotte, live in Chattanooga.

1926

DicBy C. WEST retired Feb. 23, 1984, as chairman of
the board of First National Bank of Berryville, Ark.,
after 58 years of service. He began working at the
bank in the summer of 1919 and continued to work
summers while he attended Columbia Military
Academy and Washington and Lee. He began work-
ing full time in 1926. West was vice president of the
bank during the Depression. He has held many civic
posts including membership in the Berryville City
Council, the School Board and the Board of Trustees
of Arkansas State Teachers College, now the Univer-
sity of Central Arkansas. West has also served as
president of the Arkansas Bankers Association as
well an many state committees among which are the
Comptroller of Currency’s Advisory Committee, the
Arkansas Industrial Development Commission, the
State Banking Board, and the State Chamber of
Commerce. In 1930, West tried his hand at raising
turkeys and modernized the system by using in-
cubators and broiler houses. Carroll County later
became known as the “Turkey Captial of Arkansas.’’

1927

ZED C. Layson has been retired ten years from the
tobacco business. He continues to supervise his
farms in Millersburg, Ky.

THE REv. R. WILBURN SIMMONS, after performing the
service of marriage for two of his grandchildren,
took a cruise with his wife to the eastern Caribbean.

1929

BENJAMIN P. KNIGHT JR. is retired from the C&O
Railroad. He resides at his Mountain View Farm near
Lexington.

Since retiring from Norfolk and Western Railroad,

WILLIAM W. PACE has been serving ten years as a
volunteer in the Virginia Room of the Roanoke
Public Library.

1930

THE REV. LEON R. ROBISON JR. is minister emeritus
of the Second Baptist Church in St. Louis, Mo.

39

Class Notes

N. BAUMANN STULTs was honored on April 14 in
Tallahassee when Florida State University official-
ly dedicated the Bim Stults Aquatic Center. Stults,
a member of the FSU Athletic Hall of Fame, began
his teaching and coaching career in his native Ohio
directly following graduation from W&L. He pro-
duced five state championship swimming teams at
Ross High School in Fremont, Ohio, then became an
assistant coach at Ohio State University prior to
World War II service as a Naval officer. After resum-
ing his post at OSU for two years, Stults joined the
Florida State staff in 1948 and began a coaching
career there that ultimately saw him develop many
excellent teams and All-American swimmers. He is
now retired as a professor emeritus of FSU.

1933

THOMAS O. MURPHEY is the president of M&B Invest-
ment Co., Inc., a family owned real estate holdings
firm in Arizona, Texas, and Wyoming.

1934

IsADORE E. DATTEL is acurrent member of the board
of directors of the Bank of Ruleville, Miss. He is a
past president of the Rotary Club and of the
Mississippi Retail Merchants Association. Dattel
also is a recipient of the Silver Beaver Award from
the Delta Council of the Boy Scouts of America.

1935

Don R. WALLis of Madison, Wis., is slowly retiring
from the newspaper business. He is chairman
emeritus of the board of the local bank and plays
golf twice a week.

1936

WALTER B. EAGER is enjoying the “good life” in Vero
Beach, Fla. Having retired in 1979, he fishes regular-
ly, custom builds fishing rods and writes a fishing
column for the Vero Beach Press-Journal. He also
enjoys photographing wildlife, swimming, and
traveling.

WALTER T. LAWTON JR., of Teaneck, N.J., continues
as minister of the Westchester Ethical Humanist
Society of White Plains, N-Y. Healso has a part-time
practice as a psychotherapist under supervision at
the Westchester Institute for Training in
Psychotherapy.

1938

JOHN H. SHoar is the only official trade represen-
tative for the province of New Brunswick, Canada,
to the United States. He has spent the past 35 years
promoting and engaging in trade development in
Central America, the Caribbean and Atlantic
Canada. Over the years, Shoaf has provided his ex-
pertise in trade development around the globe. He
worked for the U.S. Commerce Department in the
Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico; marketed trade
shows in Brazil, Mexico and Belgium; and organiz-
ed trade seminars in the Middle East, Southeast

40

  

J. P. Ryan, °53

Asia, Japan and Venezuela. He is also the honorary
consul of the Republic of Guatemala, where he
worked in the American Embassy for several years.
He was recently the subject of an article in The
Courier of Montgomery County, Texas. Shoaf lives
in The Woodlands.

1939

CHARLES H. SEMPLE JR., after 43 years of service,
retired in March 1982 from the Citizens Fidelity
Bank & Trust Co. of Louisville, Ky.

1940

WILLIAM M. READ retired in August 1983 as senior
vice president of Atlantic Richfield after 40 years of
service.

1942

GusTAVE A. Essic retired in December 1982 after 37
years with Monsanto Co.

1943

JEFFERSON W. Hupson of Cincinnati has retired
from Eagle-Picker Industries, Inc. He expects to
spend considerable time on Florida’s Gulf Coast.

DONALD L. RICHARDSON, an investment broker in
Troy, Mich., has been elected vice president, direc-
tor, and chairman of the investment committee of
South Oakland County Methodist Credit Union.

1944

EDMUND A. DonNAN JR. retired three years ago and
now divides his time between Greenwich, Conn., and
Jackson Hole, Wyo. He remains active by helping
non-profit organizations, and recently did a stint
with the National Executives Service Corp. in New
York.

1945

ERwIN D. LATIMER is executive vice president of
Shoney’s South, Inc., in Memphis, Tenn. He is also
president of their restaurant operations and oversees
the fast growing food service company in North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee,
Alabama, Mississippi and Arkansas. Latimer and
his family live in Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

1946

SHEPPARD W. ZINovoy has been named executive
vice president of Puritan Fashion Corp. in New York.
He is a member of its board of directors.

1949

Harry H. Hitt Jr. has retired after 35 years with
C.B. Fleet Co., Inc., of Lynchburg. Since 1965 he
served as vice president of sales and consumer
accounts.

  

C. A. Stallworth, ’53

1951

UPTON BEALV’s recent visit to England included a side
trip to Althorp, estate of the Earl of Spencer, father
of Princess Diana. Invited to lunch, Beall and his
wife arrived to find the Earl hosting friends to a
pheasant hunt on the estate. Not known for his bird
hunting back in East Texas, Beall nevertheless
shouldered a 16-gauge shotgun and downed a phea-
sant on his second try. “Lord Spencer missed his first
shot, too,’’ claimed Beall.

1952

Horace W. DIETRICH was named director of pro-
perty management at the Naiman Co., a San Diego-
based development company.

A. Dow Owens has been appointed to an eight-year
term as a judge of the 27th Judicial Circuit in
Virginia.

1953

THOMAS LEWIs MAKER is vice president and sales
manager, Fairfield Processing Corp., a Connecticut
textile manufacturer. He and his wife, Joan, have
four daughters and live in Bridgewater, Conn.

Hayes C. MCCLERKIN was recently selected as an
“Outstanding Alumnus” of the University of
Arkansas School of Law. McClerkin is a partner in
the law firm of Smith, Stroud, McClerkin, Dunn &
Nutter in Texarkana, Ark.

GEORGE F, MayNnarD is a partner in the newly form-
ed law firm of Maynard, Cooper, Frierson & Gale in
Birmingham, Ala.

JOHN P. RYAN, mortgage banking and life insurance
executive of Arlington, Texas, has been elected to the
36-member board of trustees of Trinity University
in San Antonio. Ryan serves as chairman of the
board of Ryan Mortgage Co. and First Life In-
surance Co., and is a partner in the insurance agency
of Thomas M. Ryan & Co.

CLAYTON A. STALLWoRTH has been elected to the
board of directors of Kanawha Banking & Trust Co.
He currently serves as executive vice president,
responsible for both the loan and trust divisions. He
has held various positions within the bank.
Stallworth and his wife, Diane, live with their fami-
ly in Charleston, WVa.

1954

CHARLES F. GAMBILL has been elected chairman of
the executive committee of the board of trustees of
the Illinois Masonic Medical Center (IMMC). He
will continue to serve as the board’s second vice presi-
dent. Gambill has been board secretary and chair-
man of its Barr Pavilion committee, a member of the
steering committee, and chairman of the founda-
tions division of the medical center’s fund raising
campaign. He is president and owner of Gambill

 

 

 

Development Corp., which engages in oil and gas
exploration.

1958

ROBERT A. RICHARDS, president of Frederick
Richards, Inc., a customs brokerage firm, in
Charleston, S.C., was elected director of the National
Customs Brokers and Forwarders Association of
America, Inc. at the organization’s annual meeting
on March 5, 1984.

1959

EpwarbD D. (Corky) BRISCOE, staying in shape as
always, averaged seven-and-a-half minutes per mile
recently in Louisville’s 9.3 mile Run for the Arts.
More than 4,200 runners participated with Briscoe.

CHARLES W. COLE Jr. is expected to assume the
duties as chief executive officer of First Maryland
Bancorp in June 1984. First Maryland is the parent
company of the First National Bank of Maryland,
the state’s second largest bank. Cole has been with
the bank for 22 years and has been president of the
bank in the holding company since 1977. He will be
taking over the day-to-day management of the Bank.

EvAN J. Kemp JR., executive director of the Disability
Right Center, was featured three times between
November and February in separate articles by
prominent columnists for the Washington Post,
Cleveland Plain Dealer and New York Times. Kemp,
who teaches disability law at Catholic University and
is part owner of a wheelchair manufacturing com-
pany, continues as a leading disability rights ad-
vocate to “change the public attitude toward people
who are different.’’

JOHN W. WoRSHAM JR. is retiring from academic life
after 16 years of college teaching and medical school
teaching. Most recently he has been the director of
clinical training and of graduate studies in
psychology at Trinity University. He will continue a
private practice in clinical psychology in San
Antonio.

1960

WILLIAM J. GrBBs has been promoted to senior vice
president in the Charleston office for First National
Bank of South Carolina. He has been with the bank
since 1981 and is officer in charge of the Charleston
region and is the Charleston city executive. Gibbs
participated in the 1982 membership drive of the Tri-
dent Chamber of Commerce and is a member of St.
Phillips Episcopal Church.

JOHN S. HOPEWELL received a study grant as a secon-
dary school teacher from the National Endowment
for the Humanities last summer. He participated in
the “Classics in the Frontier Experience” seminar at
the University of California/Davis.

Dr. W.E. KNICKERBOCKER, professor of church
history at Memphis Theological Seminary, con-
ducted the Bowen Lectures at the seminary in March.

  

 

W. G. Loeffler, °60 W. J. Gibbs, °60

Knickerbocker has been a member of the faculty
since 1973. He is a priest in the Episcopal Church,
Diocese of West Tennessee. Knickerbocker and his
wife, Sandra, have two children. The Bowen Lectures
were extablished by the board of trustees of the
seminary to provide an opportunity for faculty
members to present the findings of research and
study to the community of scholars in the region
served by the seminary.

THE REv. PETER J. LEE was elected bishop coadjutor
of the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia, the third largest
in the 2.8 million member denomination. He will
succeed the present bishop upon his retirement in
two years. He was rector of the Chapel of the Cross
in Chapel Hill, N.C. Before entering the Virginia
Theological Seminary where he graduated in 1967,
Lee was a law student at Duke University, an Army
intelligence officer and a newspaper reporter and
former copy editor for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch.

WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER, president of Loeffler Marley
Mountjoy, an advertising, marketing and public rela-
tions firm in North Carolina, has been awarded the
Charlotte Ad Club Silver Medal Award for 1984. The
medal, the most prestigious award offered by the
club, is awarded annually for contributions to the
community, creative ability, contributions to the re-
cipient’s company and efforts in furthering the stan-
dards of the advertising industry.

1961

DWIGHT R. CHAMBERLAIN recently attended the
seventh annual Indiana chapter of the Wild Turkey
Federation, Inc. meeting at Jasper, Ind. He judged
the turkey and owl “hooting” contests and delivered
a short seminar before the evening awards banquet
on the vocalizations and behavior of common crows
and owl species that inhabit southern Indiana.

NORBERT W. IRVINE began a two-year term as vice
president of the National Art Education Association
for the southeastern region in April. He lives in
Wilson, N.C.

Douctas J. LEwis has opened a firm under the name
of Lewis Financial Management, specializing in
asset management, personal financial planning and
tax sheltered investments. Lewis and his wife, Lin-
da, and three children live in Raleigh, N.C.

1962

L. Davip Cattaway III, after eight years abroad with
Citicorp in Hong Kong, London, and Zurich, has
been transferred back to New York where he is
responsible for international loan syndication and
debt restructuring for Latin America. Working with
the external debt problems of Mexico, Brazil, Argen-
tina, and Peru is included among his duties.

1963

GEORGE AUSTEN III has returned from California
after one year with Atari to be senior vice president

 

   

account director at J. Walter Thompson Co. in New
York.

Rurus K. BARTON III recently formed Amfuels
Corp., which invests in oil and gas royalty interests
in Michigan. Amfuels offers limited partnerships on
a private placement basis. Barton serves as executive
vice president.

J. HOLMES Morrison (See 1967.)

1964

MIcHAEL H. Bricut, professor of English at Eastern
Kentucky University, is the author of Cities Built to
Music: Aesthetic Theories of the Victorian Gothic
Revival, published by the Ohio State University
Press. The book is a study explaining why Gothic
architecture satisfied Victorian tastes in art.

Dr. HARRY L. PARLETTE III has moved from
Tidewater, Va., to Rockville, Md., where he isa cap-
tain in the Navy Medical Corps. He is also chairman
of the dermatology department and director of the
Dermatology Residency Training Program at the
Bethesda Naval Hospital.

SPENCER R. STOUFFER’S company, Miller & Smith
Homes, won a national award for their Whisper-
wood Community in Reston, Va., from Professional
Builder magazine. Stouffer serves as the marketing
partner of Miller & Smith. The firm is currently
developing a planned community of 4,700 homes in
Alexandria, Va. He and his wife, Barbara, live in
Fairfax.

S. GWATHMEY TYLER III is a partner in the newly
merged property and casualty insurance brokerage
firm of Reager Harris, Inc. It is the largest indepen-
dent general agency in Louisville, Ky.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. STEPHEN L. WILLSON, a
daughter, Romney Lee, on May 19, 1983, in Roanoke.

1965

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. PHILLIP D. MOLLERE, a son,
Oliver Sosthene Beacham, on Jan. 27, 1984, in New
Orleans. He joins an older sister and brother.

1966

JOHN L. BABER III is executive vice president for
Moudy Corp., a real estate development company
in Houston. He and his wife, Sandy, have two sons,
Jack IV, age 2, and William Carter, six months.

H. WILLIAM MAN LEY is the vice president and trust
manager of the Sylvania Savings Bank Co., in
Sylvania, Ohio.

1967

J. HOLMES Morrison has been elected to the board
of trustees of the University of Charleston and to the

41

 

 

 

Class Notes

board of directors of the Citizens National Bank in
Martinsburg, W.Va., an affiliate bank in One Valley
Bancorp, and its lead bank, Kanawha Valley.

RICHARD B. WALTERS has joined Ernst & Whinney
in Houston, Texas, as a tax manager.

1968

MARRIAGE: Makk T. BoypD and Nancy Lomneth
in Seattle, Wash. Boyd completed his M.A. degree
in marriage and family therapy and is now in private
practice there.

A. BRUCE CLEVERLY has been promoted to
marketing manager for disposable razors and
lighters for the safety razor division of Gillette North
America. In his new position he will manage the
development and implementation of marketing
strategy for the division’s disposable products.
Cleverly lives in Hingham, Mass., with his wife, Jac-
quelyn, and their two children.

JOHN R. NAZZARO is the executive director for agency
relations with the United Way of South Hampton
Roads. He was a leader in the merging of the Ports-
mouth and Norfolk, Va., campaigns of the United
Way.

STEVEN R. SAUNDERS resigned as assistant U.S. Trade
representative in the Reagan adminstration in 1982
to set up his own consulting business. He now
represents and advises foreign governments and
corporations, specializing in East and South Asia.

DALE E. WILLIAMS was recently awarded tenure by the
department of history at Loyola University in New
Orleans, where he is an associate professor. He is also
pursuing a law degree and writing in the area of legal
history. Williams will be on sabbatical leave in
1985-86.

1970

Davip M. BETHEA, assistant professor of Slavic
languages at the University of Wisconsin, Madison,
is the author of a book, Khodasevich: His Life and
Art, published by the Princeton University Press.
The April 6 issue of TLS contains a very favorable
review of the book. Vladislav Khodasevich is an im-
portant twentieth-century writer once described by
Nabokov as the “greatest Russian poet of our time.”’

T. KENNETH CRIBB JR. was recently featured in an
article in the Spring 1984 issue of The Scroll, the
magazine of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Cribb is
assistant counselor to President Reagan.

Davip R. Katz wrote a paper entitled “Bela Balazs
and the Tradition of Realism’ which was selected for
delivery at the Society for Cinema Studies annual
conference in March.

RICHARD T. ScruGGs Jr. has returned to Birm-
ingham after spending 10 years in Houston. He is
employed as an executive vice president by

42

 

A. B. Cleverly, 68

Haymaker Corp., an electrical contracting firm with
projects throughout the Southeast.

STEPHEN L. TABAKIN is a partner in the CPA firm of
Hall, Cotman, Garrison & Roseberry in Newport
News, Va. He and his wife, Claudette, live in
Williamsburg, Va.

Pup J. Tissue is a partner in the firm of Hamilton
and Mooney, in Oak Hill, W-Va. He lives with his
wife, Nancy, and children, John and Kathryn, in
Fayetteville, W.Va.

1971

Craic S. Bow is a geologist with Anaconda Minerals
Co. in Denver, Colo. He received his Ph.D. in 1979
from the University of Oregon.

E. WrENN Hupains has a private practice in
pyschology in Seattle, Wash. He and his wife, Leigh,
have two sons, ages | and 3.

Epwarp F. Jupr received the M.B.A. degree in
November 1983 from Edinburg University in
Scotland.

1972

MARRIAGE: Dr. FREDERICK H. SAnps and Sally
Sefton on Dec. 17, 1983, in Maui, Hawaii. His
brothers, David Sands, ’74, and Bill Sands, ’78, were
in the wedding. Sands practices general internal
medicine in Kula, Hawaii.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GLENN M. AZUMA, a son,
Pierce Christopher, on Feb. 9, 1984. Azuma has
recently been named a partner with the law firm of
Reuben and Proctor in Chicago.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. MERYL D. MOORE, a
daughter, Ashley Elaine, on Oct. 24, 1983, in
Newport News, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. W. WADE PEERY, ason, Wade
Hampton, on Nov. 23, 1983, in Columbus, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. MarK E. SKOGGARD, a
daughter, Dorothy Marguerite, on March 17, 1984,
in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Davip M. BERNARD and his wife, Heidi, with their
two daughters, Catherine and Elizabeth, operate a
farm near Sweet Springs, W.Va. He is president of the
Paint Bank, Va., volunteer fire department and
rescue squad.

ROBERT D. LARUE has been promoted to senior vice
president in the real estate department of Allied
Bank of Texas in Houston.

WILLIAM J. MoDICcA is an associate broker with
Moore & Co. in Roanoke, He is a past member of the
neighborhood revitalization committee of the
Roanoke Valley Board of Realtors and has been in-

volved in several rehabilitation projects in Old
Southwest. He is a member of the Commercial
Multiple Listing Service and president of both the
Roanoke Valley and the Virginia Solar Energy
Association, of which he is also chairman of the
board. Modica is also owner of Total Energy
Management Services, an energy consulting firm,
and real estate advisor to Blue Ridge Solar Homes.

J. EVERETT NEWMAN III has been appointed deputy
prosecuting attorney for Noble County, Ind. He lives
in Cromwell.

1973

MARRIAGE: RICHARD C. CRITTENDEN and Babs
Buchanan in Birmingham, Ala. Crittenden is an in-
tern in internal medicine in Savannah.

MARRIAGE: J. JASON MATTHEWS and Suzanne
Moran, on May 13, 1983, in Alexandria. Alumni in
attendance were William H. Sanders Jr., ’74, Stephen
L. Corbin, ’73, and Rev. Richard H. Graham, ’73.
Matthews left his post in Spain during April and will
be assigned to the European desk of the Department
of State in Washington for the next two years.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DouGcLas A. FORSYTH, a son,
Douglas Arthur Jr., on Jan. 2, 1984, in St. Louis, Mo.
Forsyth is an attorney specializing in railroad litiga-
tion with the St. Louis firm of Coburn, Croft &
Putzell.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Conway W. HUNTER III, a
daughter, Bonnie Kathryn, on March 26, 1984, in
New Orleans, La. Hunter is engaged in restoration
of historic commercial and residential properties.

E. PATRICK BuRKE earned the status of Diplomate
of the Court Practice Institute at the conclusion of
the National Trial Advocacy Seminar in Ft. Lauder-
dale, Fla., during the week of March 3-10, 1984.
Burke practices law in Rutland, Vt.

MICHAEL CAMPILONGO has been elected president of
the Alexandria, Va., Bar Association.

C. CHRISTOPHER GIRAGOSIAN has been promoted to
senior corporate counsel at Bank of Virginia in Rich-
mond. He joined the bank in 1976 and was elevated
to corporate counsel in 1980.

JAMES S. MAHAN III is vice chairman and chief
operating officer of Citizens Union National Bank
& Trust Co. in Lexington, Ky. He and his wife,
Marguerite, have a son, Jimmy, 8, and a daughter,
Katherine, 5.

GEORGE W. QUARM, of Cary, Miss., was featured in
an article in the Deer Creek Pilot for his heroism in
rescuing a 12-year-old girl from a frozen lake. Quarm
was driving past a lake near Rolling Fork, Miss., on
Christmas morning when he noticed a young girl had
walked onto the ice that had formed over part of the
lake and had fallen into the freezing water when the
ice gave way. By swimming and breaking the ice,

Quarm reached the girl and succeeded in pulling her
to a tree in the lake where they were later rescued by
boat.

On July 1, Dr. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN will be ap-
pointed assistant professor of dermatology and
pediatrics at Case Western Reserve University in
Cleveland. He will practice with University Der-
matologists, Inc., with a special interest in pediatric
dermatology.

J. BARTOW WILLINGHAM JR. is currently involved with
the design of communications equipment to track
the launching of deep space probes from the space
shuttle. He is lead engineer with Harris Corp., the
government communications systems division in
Melbourne, Fla.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. KEVIN J. COPPERSMITH, a
son, Ryan Thomas, on Feb. 1, 1984, in Walnut Creek,
Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. WILLIAM P. WALLACE JR., a
son, Matthew Harrison, on Jan. 2, 1984. Wallace is
practicing law with the firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse,
Walker & Thornton in Roanoke.

THOMAS K. ANGELILLO has been named vice president
and general manager of Oxmoor House, Inc., the
book publishing division of Southern Progress
Corp. in Birmingham, Ala. The company also
publishes Southern Living, Progressive Farmer and
Decorating & Craft Ideas magazines. Angelillo and
family live in Tinson, Ala.

LioyD E. EAGAN Jr. is employed by Oliver H. Van
Horn Co. as a marketing manager. He and his wife
live in New Orleans with their four daughters.

1975

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT S. BONNEY JR., a
daughter, Jessica Ann, on Aug. 5, 1983. Bonney is
a partner in the law firm of Evans, Koelzer, Osborne
and Kreizman in Red Bank, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Davip H. SLATER, a
daughter, Melanie Hart, on Oct. 19, 1983, in
Metairie, La. Slater is employed by Mobil Oil as a
staff geologist in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. FRANK L. WALTERS JR., a
son, Frank Landon III, on May 20, 1983, in Ather-
ton, Calif.

T. BARRY Davis, has been promoted to senior ac-
count manager in charge of national sales for the
Magazine Networks/3M Company in Bethesda,
Md. Davis has taken national sales honors for the se-
cond time in four years for his company and was
number one in the nation in sales for 1983. He pro-
duced more than $1.2 million in local advertising for
publications such as Time, Dun’s, Money, Business
Week, Better Homes & Gardens, and Inc.

   

W. H. Ogburn, ’76

R. S. Dickson III, ’76

CHARLES A.STEIN has completed his pediatric
residency at East Carolina University and has started
a private practice in Culpeper, Va.

CHANNING J. MARTIN (See 1979.)

1976

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. L. LANGHORNE CRAIGHILL
Jr., ason, Christopher Langhorne, on Feb.21, 1984,
in Plainsboro, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT F. LINDSEY, a
daughter, Ardith Valentine, on June 13, 1983, in Rux-
ton, Md. She joins an older brother, Robert Francis
Jr.

PETER H. ADLER was honored in September at the
55th annual meeting of the Eastern Branch of the
Entomological Society of America in Providence,
R.I. Adler received the John H. Comstock Award for
outstanding research as a graduate student. He
received his Ph.D. in entomology from Pennsylvania
State University in 1983.

DaviD R. BRAUN was promoted to manager of the
financial services division of the Travelers Insurance
Co. He heads up the Minneapolis field office.

RusHS. Dickson III has been promoted to vice presi-
dent and general manager of Harris-Ieeter Super
Markets, Inc., a grocery chain of over 70 stores, head-
quartered in Charlotte, N.C. Dickson joined Harris-
Teeter in 1978.

WILLIAM H. OGBURN JR. has been promoted to vice
president of the U.S. Division of NCNB National
Bank in Charlotte, N.C. He joined NCNB in 1979 as
a corporate planning analyst.

JAMES D. PEARSON was one of the 48 grand finalists
from across the country competing for top honors
at the Insilco National B/C/D Squash Tournament
at the Squash Club International in Los Angeles. He
won the C division of the Northern New Jersey
regional at the Chatham Squash Club in January to
earn the all-expense paid trip to the grand finals. The
tournament is the largest in the world with over 6,500
amateur entrants from 250 clubs in the competition.

Some of STEVEN K. RoBErTs’ silkscreen prints were
shown in the April 1984 American Printmakers in
Moscow show sponsored by the American Embassy
in Moscow. His studio is in Washington.

1977

MARRIAGE: BENJAMIN M. LOweE and Debra
Harner on Oct. 15, 1983, at Fort Belvoir, Va. Lowe
was vice consul in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and, in
March, became vice consul in Cape Town, South
Africa.

MARRIAGE: VAUGHAN M. PULTz and Janet
Blohm, on July 30, 1983. Pultz received his Ph.D. in
physical chemistry from the University of Minnesota

 

   

77

J. D. Gottwald,

in December. He is employed by Rohm & Haas Co.
as a research chemist in Spring House, Pa.

BIRTH: RoBErtT W. AND MARYELLEN F. GOODLATTE,
a daughter, Jennifer Flaherty, on Aug. 28, 1983, in
Roanoke. He is now chairman of Virginia’s 6th Con-
gressional District Republican Committee.

ROBERT R. CAMPBELL JR. was recently promoted to
community banking officer in the corporate bank-
ing division at Union Trust Bank in Baltimore.
Campbell joined the bank in 1982 as a commercial
bank trainee and later became a corporate banking
representative.

Wayne G. Epwarps became a partner in the Union-
dale, N-Y., law firm of Margiotta and Ricigliano on
April 1, 1983.

JoHN D. GorTWALD has assumed responsibility for
the oil and gas operations for the Ethyl Corp. in ad-
dition to his duties as executive vice president and
general manager of the Elk Horn Coal Corp., an
Ethyl subsidiary. In his new role, Gottwald is general
manager of the newly formed energy division. He is
a director of the National Council of Coal Lessors.

Louis B. HACKERMAN is a Systems analyst for
Floating Point Systems, Inc. in their Rockville, Md.,
sales office. It performs technical sales support
functions.

Dr. E. CLAIBORNE IRBy is currently serving his
residency in orthopedic surgery in Charlotte, N.C.

JOHN A. MAGEE V received the M.B.A. degree from
the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business in
May 1983. He is employed with the First Union Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

THEODORE L. UHLMAN JR. isa systems analyst with
Burroughs Corp. in Radnor, Pa. For the past seven
years, he worked with International Paper Co. in
Philadelphia.

WILLIAM P. WALLACE JR. (See 1974.)

1978

MARRIAGE: RicuHarop S. CLEARY and Helen Bragg
Curtin in Bethesda, Md., on June 4, 1983. Members
of the wedding party included Robert J. Marvin Jr.,
°78; John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L; and Stephen P.
Marzo, ’78. Other alumni in attendance were Patrick
F. Dennis, ’78; Robert P. Forlenza, ’78; Michael J.
Knapp, ’77; Robert L. Clarkson, ’78; Duncan S.
Klinedinst, ’74; and Guy T. Steuart, ’53. While
honeymooning in Bermuda, the couple saw J. Kevin
Rhoads, ’78, and Harry T. Jones III, ’78. Cleary
practices labor law with Greenebaum, Doll &
McDonald in Louisville, Ky.

MARRIAGE: Rosert N. Muccio1a and Margaret
B. Steffen on Aug. 6, 1983, in Norfolk. They reside
in El Paso, Texas, where Mucciola is serving his
residency in obstetrics and gynecology.

43

    

  

several reconnaissance ce I
an instructor at NA S Pe nsa cola, Fle

 
   
  
   
    
  
 
 

r by ‘Winthrop Labs, a division of

err territory includes Atlanta, Ga.,

nd nd J la., with special emphasis on na-
1minority leader, theHon. tional accounts. He live in Roswell, Ga.

‘the New York State

of oaks ane — in mths He
specializes inthe secur mies secon: of the e firm. |

 
 
 
 
  
   
    
   
 
  

 

 

1980.

MARRIAGE: EDWARD C. Monnison and Rosalyn

    

"MARRIAGE: RE. Lee Davies and Karen F
Aug. 20, 1983, in | Knoxville, Tenn. A
cial =s sroor men | M

 

John Robert I anna , in Fr. Worth.
ssident of Wynne Petroleum Co., which

Ir unications officer
ferson (SSN 618). The
editionary medal
ile waters for a five-

terranean Sea. _

 
  

    
     
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 

BIRTH: Mr. aN Mas. Cc CHANNI xo J MAK
mond? Va. Martin is an attorney with Villiams,
| Mullen & Christian. oe :

 

 

  

Court. Heis serving as alaw
| NC. Nix Jr., chief Justice

    

daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on 1 March 2B, 1984, in
Bluefield, Wa. 7

) ALDI N Hannuncrow I works for + Computer
Corp. in Dahlgren, Va. He lives | in 1 King

 

 
 
  

) Chevr vron’s produc-
ice division as a well log analyst. His cur-
ignment is in Houston. He helps manage
G eservoirs and will be

Davip D. My.n has been promoted in the US. Air
Force ams Ai rank of captain. Hei isa Tes piloté at

 

 

Davip DT. r Trice isa a sscondjeatt resident ‘in internal
medicine at ‘the Medical University of South

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

the basic Spanish and the jumpmaster courses,
CAPT. WELLINGTON GODDIN JR. is serving temporary
duty in the Republic of El Salvador. His permanent
station is Ft. Gulick, Panama.

HoMER D. GRAHAM III will graduate from the
Louisiana State University School of Medicine on
May 19, 1984. In July, he will begin a residency in
general surgery at the Ochsner Foundation Medical
Center.

LAWRENCE K. GUMPRICH is a CPA for the firm of
McGladrey, Hendrickson & Pullen in Richmond,
Va.

R. MARK LEwIs is manager of a residence facility for
chronic psychiatric patients. He is a Ph.D. candidate
at the California School of Professional Psychology
in San Diego.

JOHN W. MCALISTER is working at the Department
of Transportation in Washington as a special assist-
ant to the assistant secretary for public affairs.
McAlister lives in Alexandria.

WILLIAM H. MATTHAI JR. will graduate from medical
school at Vanderbilt University and start an internal
medicine residency at the University of Pennsylvania
Hospital in July.

RUSSELL B. PARMELE JR. is the sales representative for
the Mikasa Co., a dealer in china, crystal and gifts,
for Tennessee, Alabama and Florida. Parmele lives
in Nashville.

SAMUEL L. PERKINS is now practicing law in the field
of health care antitrust with the firm of Kent Master-
son Brown in Lexington, Ky. He and his wife have
three children.

DIANNE GIBSON RINGER was promoted to deputy
commonwealth’s attorney in Portsmouth, Va.

C. HUNT SHUFORD JR. received his M.B.A. degree
from Columbia University last May. He is currently
employed in the New York institutional sales office
of Interstate Securities, a regional brokerage firm
based in Charlotte, N.C.

1981

MARRIAGE: RICHARD H. DRENNEN and Helen
Anne Mélyveire, on Oct. 1, 1983, in Birmingham, Ala.
The couple lives in Nashville, Tenn., where Drennen
is associated with Freeman Webb Co. Realtors.

MARRIAGE: MaAtinpDA E. DUNN and Capt.
Richard Hinojosa on October 22, 1983. Pat Goding
Davis, ’81L, and Jan Benedetti, ’81L, were among the
bridesmaids. Dunn, a captain in the U.S. Army JAG
Corps, is a Multinational Force and Observers Judge
Advocate in the Sinai Peninsula.

MARRIAGE: Wiu1AM J. RoBEeRTs and Mary Ann
Jenkins on Oct. 8, 1983, in Crewe, Va. Clark King Jr.,
85, was in the wedding party.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD P. RopGcERsS and Anne
Gilman Brown on Aug. 6, 1983, in Washington. They
live in Lusaka, Zambia, where Rodgers heads the
consular section of the American Embassy.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRS. JOHN W. B. NORTHINGTON,
a daughter, Patricia Knowles, on Sept. 17, 1983 in
Midland, Texas.

GEOFFREY H. BRENT is an investment executive for
Baker, Watts & Co. Investment Bankers, in
Baltimore. He is also president of the Chesapeake
Lacrosse Club.

Pup D. CALDERONE is the in-house counsel for the
New York Institute of Technology. He lives in
Massapequa, N.Y.

PETER D. ELIADES will graduate this month from T.C.
Williams School of Law at the University of Rich-
mond. After the bar exam, he will be employed by
Eliades, Robertson and Eakin in Hopewell, Va.

R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON is an international bank-
ing officer for Wachovia Bank in Charlotte, N.C. He
has business development responsibilities in North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.

ROBERT P. GORDON III is a staff accountant on the
audit staff of Arthur Andersen in the Chicago office.

BEN W. KEESEE has been promoted from general
assignment reporter to the investigative reporting
team at WREG-IV in Memphis, Tenn. Keesee’s
19-part expose of slack supervision in the state’s
prisoner release program prompted a public hearing
and the proposal of new legislation to tighten regula-
tions and enforcement. His series on health care
costs and the politics of regulating free-stand
emergency centers won the Tennessee Hospital
Association Community Service Award. His report
on the death of liver transplant patient Brandon Hall
was entered in the Congressional Record by Rep.
Albert Gore (D-Ienn.) as a testament to the plight
transplant patients face. Several of Keesee’s feature
reports have appeared on the CBS Morning News
program. In addition to his duties as reporter, Keesee
attends evening classes at Memphis State University
School of Law.

FRANK B. B. KNOWLTON graduated from the Univer-
sity of South Carolina School of Law and is an
associate with the firm of Robinson, McFadden,
Moore, Pope, Williams, Taylor & Brailsford in
Columbia.

GORDON J. LEwiIs is an intelligence research analyst
with the Department of Defense at Fort Meade, Md.

THOMAS E. MARTIN was appointed executive direc-
tor of the Rhode Island Council for Community
Services, a private research and planning agency that
serves the state of Rhode Island’s social and human
service agencies.

JAMES H. NEALE is associated with the firm of Butler,

Fitzgerald and Potter in New York.

ROBERT S. PALMER is working for the First National
Bank of Maryland.

1982

MARRIAGE: Lt. Douctas R. LINTON III and Lt.
Debra Ellen Baldwin on Nov. 19, 1983. Linton is sta-
tioned at Fort Hood.

2ND LT. MICHAEL J. COLLIER is an aviation section
leader with the 172nd Infantry Brigade assigned to
duty at Ft. Richardson, Alaska.

J. PRESTON COVINGTON III is employed by Bankers
Trust of South Carolina in Columbia. He is an ac-
count executive in the money management division
and consults with individuals on investments and
financial planning.

JouN T. DANIEL completed the capital markets train-
ing program with the investment banking firm of
Wertheim and Co. in New York and has entered the
firm’s private investor group.

Don J. DUDLEY has graduated from the U.S. Army
Aviation Training Center in Ft. Rucker, Ala. Heisa
helicopter pilot stationed at Ft. Carson, Colo.

JAMES B. Haynes III is working for a year in the
Everglades National Park. He plans to enroll ina
graduate engineering program.

Ist Lt. ANTHONY R. IERADTI is the executive officer
of C troop, Ist Squadron 10th U.S. Cavalry at Fort
Carson, Colo. His unit is part of the Fourth Infantry
Division.

On March 2, ENSIGN BRUCE C. JONES graduated
from the U.S. Coast Guard Officer Candidate
School in Yorktown, Va. He is currently undergoing
flight training at the Naval Air Station in Pensacola.

JAMES S. KAPLAN is a trader on the money desk in the
funds management division of First Union National
Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

JOHN W. MaRrtTIN is pursuing an M.B.A. degree at
Virginia Commonwealth University and is working
part time in the marketing department of Siddall,
Matus and Coughter, a Richmond based advertis-
ing agency.

NELSON E. OuLtp has been transferred to
Greensboro, N.C., by Wachovia Bank as assistant
corporate loan administration manager for the
region.

2ND LT. HOLLIS W. PLIMPTON III is in the U.S. Marine
Corps. He graduated from basic training in April
and has been sent to Camp Lejeune for further
training.

J. BURRUSS RIIs is in his second year of law school
at the University of Alabama.

45

 

 

    
  
 

 

‘Service in New York, 7

: National Bank i in Columbia, SC.

of Coopers & Lybrand i in Palo Alto, Calif.

 

In Memoriam

 

Arlington, Va. He is onsidering ga teaching career
in biology and chemistry.

 
    
 
 

a fanty office e basic course at the US. “Infante
JOHN T. WARMATH III works for Moody’s Investors Benning,Ga. © a

  

is firm in Washington.

 

WINDSOR III is a property manager/leasing
trainee with the Fults Management a in Dallas.

Samuet L. PERKINS (See 1980.)

1984 |

PERRY L. Goopsar is convention service 2 manager
for The ae in Hot Springs, Va.

    

 

Tenn. ‘He recently completed no aa
e aminati ion and isin the process of
nercial

    
 

 

 

 

ion, past chairman of the | pheals County
emocratic Com mittee, , and past member and at-
torey for the Virginia Daihen Bank. |

1917

 

 

[BLING Ir., Mexico, Mo.,

c leader “and. i president, superintendent and
chairman of the board of Missouri Military
Academy, died Dec. 5, 1983. Col. Stribling was

 

 

president of the Association of Military Colleges
and Schools of the United States. He was also the
president of the Missouri Chamber of Commerce
and headed its education committee; a 40-year
director for Commerce
active member and deacon at the First Presbyterian
Church of Mexico. Stribling was designated “Man
| of the Year’” by, the Mexico | Chambe |

 

    

    

at the University of Virginia st year med Medicine. .
a former administrator of Audrain Medica
| Center, where he was on mee poe of directors

 

CAROL Hoswaut has been promoted to lieutenant in
the US. Navy JAG Corps i in Charleston, S Co

GREGORY E. JoHNSoN is employed by the CPA firm

 
 

“1919

B. LEIGH KAPLAN isa biochemical l lab technician in Josera BUNGER Livesay, retired Presbyterian

 

 

listed in Who’s Who in America. He was a past |
- Bank of Mexico; and an >

Mid-Missouri ’ Regional Arthritis Center. -_ was

  
  
 

minister of 38 years, died June 9, 1981, in

, Va. He was a past member of the

90ro Chapter of the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts, the Community Concert Association
and the Blue ¢ Ridge Chapter of AARP. —

1920

ROBERT BURNS GRUBB died July 21, 1983, in

Lewistown, Pa.
1923

GARLAND MCCLUNG (DICK) FEAMSTER died Nov.
19, 1983. Following an early teaching career, he
had interests in natural gas and coal development
for more than 40 years. Feamster was an owner |

of apartment housing in Alderson, W.Va. _

CHARLES HAMILTON Ross, an attorney in private
practice, push il, 1979. He my heirs m ember

| fe Lodge 25 6 F&AM, ‘a lif
nber of tysburg. Elks, the American

Legion Post 168 in Thurmont, Md., the Get-

tysburg Eagles and the —a Moose.

1926

HARRY PFEFFER, an attorney in private practice
a more tan 55 pears, led Jan. 21, 1984, in
Woc : n

   

 

    
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
 

- Associa tion and the New York State

; | enforcement attorney for
ction in New York; presi-

lety y at Temple Beth El; and

ER STONE, former vice president of
ors Service, Inc., a securities rating
1 June 6, 1981. He was a CPA, a comp-
e Tennessee Valley Authority and past
f Moore & Walker Mortgage Co.

q EDWARD (TEx) Tison, star athlete and -
t W&L football coach, died March 3, 1984,

ing open-heart surgery. Tilson was a
Southern Conference champion in boxing and
wrestling and captain of the football team while

ne

at ¥ t W&L. » He was also student body presid

    

sident.
g from W&L Tilson spent four
assistant football coach and head coach
xing ‘and wrestling at Duke. Tilson moved
back to Lexington in 1931 to take over as head
football coach at W&L. One of his teams was the
first Virginia team to win the Southern Conference

 

 

 

 

football championship. When World War II ended
football at W&L for a few years, Tilson went in-
to business and in 1948 started selling real estate.
He served on the Virginia Real Estate Commis-
sion and was a co-founder of the Rockbridge Fox
Hunt. He spent his years after 1948 as a cattle
farmer and real estate agent. Tilson was active in
W&L alumni affairs and had served as president
of the Alumni Association.

1927

Dr. WILLIAM THOMAS BLACK Jr. died April 9,
1984, in Memphis, Tenn. While maintaining his
private practice, he was also an associate professor
of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of
Tennessee Center for the Health Sciences. He was
a staff member at Baptist, Methodist, and St.
Joseph hospitals, a member of several medical
organizations, and was a past president of the
Memphis Obstetrics and Gynecology Medical
Society. Black was a member of the Second
Presbyterian Church, Memphis Country Club, and
the Rotary Club.

1928

JOHN GIDDENS LAYTHAM died Sept. 21, 1983, in
Woodstown, N.J. He had served as production
superintendent for 39 years for E. I. duPont de
Nemours prior to his retirement.

JOHN MAHER, past president of the Reed Roller
Bit Co. in Houston died Jan. 31, 1984. He was
formerly head of the Oil Center Tool Co.

GILES EDWARD WRIGHT, a newspaper reporter and
news editor for more than 40 years, died Feb. 24,
1984. Following his retirement from the newspaper
business in 1967, he edited Thoroughbred of
California, the official publication of the Califor-
nia Thoroughbred Breeders Association. He
published fiction short stories and numerous ar-
ticles on thoroughbreds and related fields.

1930

JOHN V. BOWSER died at his home in Belleair, Fla.,
on Feb. 3, 1984. A native of Newcastle, Pa.,
Bowser moved to Florida in 1973. He was an at-
torney and a member of the Pittsburgh, Alleghany
County and Pennsylvania Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. At one time Bowser was vice
president and controller of Westinghouse Air
Brake Co. and of several Westinghouse
subsidiaries.

ERNEST MERTON Woop Jr., retired Abbott, Proc-
tor & Paine stockbroker, died Jan. 29, 1984, in
Lynchburg. He was a member and former
vestryman of St. John’s Episcopal Church and was
captain of the famed ‘‘Point-a-Minute’’
Generals—the 1929-30 basketball team which
averaged 40 points per game and defeated the likes
of Duke, Virginia, UNC, N.C. State, and
Maryland enroute to a 16-4 record.

193]

FREDERICK MINTO BARRON, former owner of the
Fred M. Barron & Co. Real Estate in Baltimore,
died Sept. 30, 1983. He was active as a member
of the board of governors of the Real Estate Board
of Greater Baltimore and was chairman for one
term of the multiple listing bureau. In 1968 he
retired to Pompano Beach, Fla., where he was an
elder of the First United Presbyterian Church.

ANDREW JENNINGS CAMPBELL JR., president and
general manager of Jan Campbell Music Co. in
Beckley, W.Va., died in November 1981. He
toured the country for many years as a professional
musician and director of his own dance band,
which was featured on major radio networks, and
played at most of the major colleges and univer-
sities. He returned to his native Beckley to open
his retail music business in 1951.

MARVIN NELSON PILLEy died March 16, 1984, in
Memphis, Tenn. He was in the retail foods
business all of his professional life.

1932

LEwiIs HAMPTON SHUMATE JR., retired president
of the Empire Furniture Corp., died Oct. 1, 1983,
in Johnson City, Tenn. He was also president of
Grassdale Farms in Chilhowie, Va. He served on
the board of directors of Johnson City Memorial
Hospital; the board of directors of Hamilton Bank
and the East Tennessee Chair Co., Inc.; and the
board of trustees of Washington College
Academy. He was a member of the Selective Draft
Board of Johnson City and served as an elder of
Watauga Avenue Presbyterian Church.

1933

MARSHALL STOKES BLACK, past editor and
publisher for 34 years of the Marion County

AIG 0h
on
Ye “Vip

ARYA Yr 1)

   
   
    

YL

UN \ Ned Pht LEE”

ANS (We {II

ry
\\!

  

AW Tata
Mi
tS

 

M4
U
wi

  

eT

Patriot and the Upson County News, died July 2,
1980, in Georgia. He was a past member of the
American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign
Wars.

1934

THOMASSON MICHAEL BOLAND, a retired laboratory
foreman with DuPont Co., died on March 20,
1984, in Village Mills, Texas. He worked for Du-
Pont for 40 years. Boland was active in the
Wildwood Volunteer Fire Department, the
Wildwood Civic Club and the local branch of the
American Association of Retired People, which
he served as president.

BELVARD RUCKER PRICHARD, former president and
chairman of the loan board of the Wayne Coun-
ty Bank, died May 29, 1983. He was a member
and president of the Wayne County Commission,
treasurer of the Wayne Chamber of Commerce,
past secretary for the Southern West Virginia Oil
& Gas Corp. and past secretary-treasurer for the
Lions Club.

1938

HENRY MYERS DRAKE, retired agency manager for
the Southern Farm Bureau Insurance Co., died
Feb. 8, 1984, in Port Gibson, Miss. He was the
fifth generation of his family to be associated with
W&L. Drake was a deacon in the Presbyterian
Church and a member of the board of directors
for the Mosswood Country Club.

1939

EVERETT ORME AMIS, longtime employee of The
Memphis Commercial Appeal and writer of a
weekly food column entitled ‘‘Man in the Kit-
chen,’’ died Nov. 8, 1981. Amis held various posi-
tions at the newspaper, the last of which were Sun-
day editor and food editor. He retired to
Lighthouse Point, Fla., in 1973, where he continued
to write food reviews and columns until his death.

Dr. JOHN M. Moore died March 20, 1984, in Vic-
toria, Texas. He retired from private surgical prac-
tice in 1983, but remained on the honorary staff
of El Campo Memorial Hospital. He also con-
tinued serving as the Wharton County Health Of-
ficer, a position he had held since being appointed
in 1967. He was a charter member of the medical
staff of El Campo Memorial Hospital and served
as chief-of-staff in 1980-81.

1948

ANDREW JACKSON PowER JR., practicing attorney
for Terrell Petroleum Co., died March 20, 1984. He
was a life-time resident of Ft. Worth and a member
of the Broadway Baptist Church.

1985

BERNARD JAMES REILLY died in August 1982 in
Wallingford, Pa., of leukemia.

47

 

 

 

/

 

 

And furthermore. . .

Letters to the Editor Mostly About Coeducation

ON TRAD ITION :

 

Editor:

I want to address myself to two issues caus-
ing some consternation on W&L’s campus and
in the minds of many alumni around the coun-
try. They: are not both of equal present import,
but the implications mavt be oo sienna

 

the "Assimilation Committee went out of
business. Though I didn’t personally dislike
wearing a tie and jacket to class, I was against
the idea of calling the convention a “tradi-
tion’--which, by definition, is not enforced by
sanctions—when, in fact, it wasa regulation.
It was obvious from the protest a ue earlier

 

 

classrootn’ participation
represented by the way they dress. In fe
don’t wear a tie to class—nor doar any of my
structors in the doctoral classes I'm t

 

the teaching—or the learning. ‘Wearing a tie

does not make someone eae either.
no one : remember what it was ike? It was a

 

 

     
  
  

“assimilatec ” anonymously for appearing in
the dining hall without a tie. There \
several students who took | yt

 

te nti orec 1 refined, polite,
etc.” , Is that really how v we e want ourselves to be
seen—affected and Pretentious? Lee would
spininhis grave!

Now, the other matter—coeducation.

Much has already been said, and much more
will surely follow, but I want to voice my feel-
ings, too. When I sent in my completed ques-
tionnaire, I indicated that tradition fori its own
sake should» never be a criterion yn

tion should bev whether 0 or not t coeducation \ will
affect scholarly pursuits and intellectual ex-
ploration. I cannot conceive of a circumstance

in which admitting women to WE&L would
have a damaging effect on these. On the con--

trary, with women finally taking their rightful
places in the academic and professional

 
   
 

 

   
     
 
   

 

 

osphere of the school.

 
   
 

2 ng gso o serves the higher goals
versity. A tradition should not be
maintained fori its own sake, but only if itcon--
tinues to serve its society. Blind obedience to
useless traditions will eventually destroy any
on. Think about it—how many

  
  

say | W&L must go coed or die—
urd. But I do say, accept or reject

| coeducation on rational criteria alone, not

emotional ones. What, after all, is the Univer-
sity there for—to perpetuate : a status quo, or
create educated people to go out and make a

better world? Scholarship knows no gender

distinctions. |

E. KRAMER, 69
New York, N.Y.

ngs Igained from W&L is the
awareness that learning is a lifelong process. __
Thus, I believe that I can use the nearly two
decades since my graduation (as amember of
the Class of 1965), with experience as an M.A.
student at Oberlin College and a Ph.D. (in pro-
gress) student at the University of Michigan,

 

to bring some objectivity to bear on the issue

 

Washington and Lee’s two outstanding
characteristics, in my view, are the Honor
System and the fact that it is a men’s college.
Of the value of te Hongnsiaem! there can be

nen’s college
t as certain. In
a 1960s in

  
  
   
   

tions which exc Jud

 

 

 

outdated and should be opened to both sexes
or abolished. Having had the opportunity to
consider this idea over the years (along with the
inevitable process of growing older and the
common one of establishing ties in the com-
munity through various organizations), many
Americans, including myself, have come to the
conclusion that there is a place in our society
for institutions which are exclusively male or
female. This stems from the feeling that men
and women are emotionally different
(wouldn’t life be dull, otherwise!) and that men
should sometimes have the opportunity to
associate exclusively with men and women
with women.

While this need is best met later in life by
joining the appropriate clubs, as a young man,
it is met by attending a men’s college or,
perhaps, by serving in the military. In my ex-
perience, the situation of Washington and Lee
in the Valley of Virginia was more or less ideal,
in that respect. The women’s colleges of the
Valley complemented W&L socially and in-
tellectually; we were something special to them
and they to us. At the same time, I believe that
the reason W&L men feel such a strong bond
to their University is its identification with
their development as young men. This is
something which, obviously, a coed institution
cannot provide. Moreover, the fact of W&Ls
being a men’s college does not preclude it from
sharing in the intellectual richness and diver-
sity provided by the women’s colleges in the
area; in fact, I gather from reading the Alum-
ni Magazine that the sharing of courses and
programs is flourishing to a degree unknown
20 years ago. In light of this activity, it would
hardly be possible for a W&L man to graduate
without developing an awareness of women as
colleagues and intellectual equals in the world.

In terms of the intellectual excellence of
Washington and Lee as a men’s or a coeduca-
tion institution, I do not believe there would be
any significant difference over the long run. To
be sure, I was initially attracted by the argu-
ment that coeducation would broaden the
pool of candidates for admission to W&L ina
time of declining college enrollments.
However, upon reflection, I believe that
ultimately W&L would have an advantage in
this respect in remaining one of the few alter-
natives to coeducation at the college level in the
United States. It already has an excellent
academic reputation in its region, as attested
by the recent article in US. News and World
Report; coeducation is unlikely to improve
that and, in fact, could weaken the Universi-
ty’s appeal by diminishing its individuality in
comparison with other area colleges.

Finally, I am glad that Iam an alumnus of
Washington and Lee University. If I had it to
do over again, I would certainly choose W&L.

It has provided me with an intellectual and
spritual reservoir from which I continue to
draw strength, and shall do so throughout my
life. W&L was a fine university when I was a
student there; it is even better today. I am con-
fident that preserving its identity as a men’s
college will prove to have been the right course.
Deferral of this change is always possible,
whereas reversal is not. (As my field is the ar-
chitectural preservation of historic buildings,
it is appropriate at this point to remark that its
cardinal principle is: Never make any change
to a building which is irreversible.) Let us re-
main faithful to our heritage and keep
Washington and Lee the unique and wonder-
ful institution which it is—a men’s college!
WOODARD D. OPENO, 65
Portsmouth, N.H.

Editor:

Discussions about coeducation with alum-
ni during the recent reunion prompt me to
write this letter. Iam disturbed by some of the
rumors that are being circulated about the
faculty and the administration, and I am con-
cerned by the bitterness that sometimes shows
in the debate. As an alumnus and a member of
the faculty my views are a blend of both
groups, and though I am not a spokesman for
either group, I would like to share some per-
sonal opinions about the coeducation debate.

There is something unusual about the ex-
perience of being an undergraduate at W&L.
It is hard to know what the critical ingredient
is. Perhaps it is the ambiance of this place, the
beauty of the campus and the valley, the small
size and close contacts we have with fellow
students and faculty, the rich experience of
meeting students from others parts of the
country for the first time, the intellectual
challenge of new ideas, being part of a com-
munity of people active in scholarly work, the

 

 

 

 

challenge of working with smart and
motivated fellow students. Some think it lies
significantly in the maleness of the school.
Whatever it is, most of us who spent a part of
our lives at W&L do not want to see those
aspects of the Washington and Lee experience,
which we value so greatly, changed and
perhaps lost.

But other factors force themselves upon us.
The nature of our society and especially the
role of women in it has changed. The size of the
college age population is dropping rapidly.
The sons of many of our alumni as well as
other potential applicants reject the idea of at-
tending an all-male institution. The SAT scores
and class standing of both our applicants and
those admitted is slowly declining in the face
of an increasing effort on the part of our ad-
missions office to enlarge our applicant pool.
The quality of this institution is clearly
threatened. These are the factors that prompt
about 80 percent of our faculty to favor
coeducation. (The allegation that the faculty
voted in favor of coeducation in order to ap-
pease President Wilson is simply untrue.
Mutual respect and freedom for independence
of opinion have characterized administration-
faculty relationships throughout the ad-
ministrations I have known—those of Gaines,
Pusey, Cole, Huntley, and Wilson. Ours is a
record that would be envied by many other
institutions.)

Our Board of Trustees will make the final
decision on coeducation. Based on their past
performance and on my knowledge of in-
dividuals on the Board, I feel that this difficult
decision could not be in the hands of a group
more dedicated to the future welfare of
Washington and Lee. The execution of the
decision will be in the hands of President
Wilson, a man who enjoys the support and ad-
miration of an overwhelming majority of the
faculty.

Regardless of the Board’s decision, some
alumni, some students, and some faculty
members are going to disagree, perhaps
vehemently. Ultimately, the reaction of both
the alumni and the faculty to the decision may
be as important as the decision itself. Whatever
that decision is, it will bring new challenges for
all of us. Let us resolve now to meet those
challenges, to work together to make this a bet-
ter University, to reject divisiveness, and to
recognize that those with opposing opinions
share our central concern for the future of
Washington and Lee.

EDGAR SPENCER, ’53
Lexington, Va.

(A member of the Washington and Lee facul-
ty since 1957, Dr. Spencer is head of the depart-
ment of geology.)

49

would be appropriate’ indeed € crucial—for
the Trustees to contemplate the question of

| Fe eres but not par- 1e state and feder: aul a
re BS | Kenner D. SMITH, 79
—— oe _ Danville, Va.

°

ng, = in irorot
3 fairly straightfor-

 

to social life: bring ’em in for the weekend; load
"em up with screwdrivers; and try to get ’em in-
to bed.

I see nothing wrong with booze and sex,
both of which I consider among life’s great
pleasures. But ‘“‘real life’ is populated with
women all day, everyday and a structure which
squeezes most relations with the opposite sex
artificially into weekends, makes for no real
relationships. I suspect one reason for the fre-
quency of divorce among many of my
classmates who married their college loves
upon graduation was they really didn’t know
each other.

If you see young ladies in the morning at
breakfast or debate issues from a course both
of you are taking over a beer and a hamburger
or run five miles through the autumn with one
of them, you get a whole different, fuller
perspective than if the near totality of your
social contact consists of shouting at each
other over the noise of some rock combo ina
frat house cellar.

3) Maybe all of that has changed and Iam
out of touch but, as a relatively senior officer
of a major New York bank, I do know
something about the contemporary affect of
women in business. When I started here near-
ly 25 years ago, the only women in the place sat
behind typewriters and adding machines.
Now, they are all over at all levels and they are
good. We even have a female senior vice presi-
dent. Okay, only one, but it’s a start.

I wondered how we could have been so
dumb as to arbitrarily exclude from considera-
tion for management jobs over half the
population for so long. But we did. Needless
to say, it has not been easy for the ladies and
though I think I am liberal on these issues, even
I needed to be educated. It could not have been
more than a dozen years ago, I was carefully
explaining to a young lady that women certain-
ly couldn’t go on business trips with men
because sex might rear its head. She quite pro-
perly shot back, “That’s your problem!”

It is still an uphill fight for women in bank-
ing and I guess it has forced them to be better
than “we” are to get near equal treatment. Sad-
ly, the status of women in business is still not
unlike the standing of blacks in America.
However, in both situations things continue to
change for the better. A better example:
although at present only two percent of our
lawyers are women, 35 percent of all lawyers 27
and under are women.

The best of these women will be earning a

great deal of money and giving some of it to

good universities which nurtured them. They

will also be directing bright young people of
both sexes to good universities.

RAYMOND D. SMITH, JR., ’55

Pound Ridge, N.Y.

Editor:

I am the son of an alumnus, I have served
as Washington, D.C., Alumni Chapter presi-
dent, I have organized a yearly scholarship
grant, I have served as an alumni admissions
representative, I have guest lectured in the
Journalism School, and I have contributed
regularly to the annual fund.

Although I have a definite opinion on
coeducation, I have not written specifically to
give that opinion. The primary purpose of this
letter is to express my concern over the way the
coeducation choice is being approached. Us-
ing the decline in the college age population as
justification to push the adoption of a
coeducation plan ignores the real problem fac-
ed by the admissions office.

I find it most curious that coeducation is
being approached from a demographic stand-
point rather than a philosophical one. The
philosophy of all-male education at
Washington and Lee University is not at issue,
but rather the need to institute coeducation is
based on demographic proof. I submit that the
Board of Trustees is being made a victim of
Scare tactics used by those who would
manipulate numbers to their own advantage.
As amarketing executive, I am all too familiar
with the ways demographics can be used as
justification for any purpose the user wishes.

The real problem is one of modern
marketing. Washington and Lee is behind the
times in this area, relying on reputation and
visits of admissions officers to do the job. To-
day’s competitive marketplace demands that
Washington and Lee enter the race with
modern thinking. To this point the Board of
Trustees have been less than responsive.

The admissions department is not given

 

the modern marketing support that today’s
market demands to properly represent the
University, hindering the admissions officers
from accomplishing their goals. The
demographic trends are being used by the
Board as an excuse to institute coeducation,
not as a reason. The quality of education of-
fered by Washington and Lee, the reputation
and visibility of the University’s numerous
famous graduates, and the vast number of
eligible potential applicants from across the
country should insure that the University has
the best of the best to choose from. However,
this is not the case. The reality is that
Washington and Lee is already beginning to
settle for accepting some applicants who are
not up to the University’s standards. Why?
Because the Board of Trustees has not seen
where the real need is. They want to use
coeducation as a bandage that will repair the
damage done by a Board who is satisfied with
marketing techniques that are amatuerish,
dated, and provincial. Admissions officers
need the advantages of professional marketing
support; the same tools used by universities
who have much more of an eye on the future.
Coeducation without a change in attitude
toward the total marketing of the University is
only a temporary solution. What, may I ask,
happens should the quality of applicants still _
decline after a coeducational program is in
place? Is it only then that the Board of Trustees
will wake up to the real problem?

If the Board of Trustees is really interested
in guaranteeing the high standards of the stu-
dent population and the continued success of
its educational goals, they should table the
issue of coeducation until they can focus their
attention on a permanent solution to the real
problem Washington and Lee faces.

Retain the services of a top public relations

and publicity firm that will work with

Washington and Lee to develop and carry out
a strategy designed to make the ideals, advan-
tages, and realities of life at Washington and
Lee known to the American public. A con-
certed effort in this area would surely satisfy
the long term needs of the University by
enhancing the school’s image and desirability
at a lower financial cost than the alternative
imposition of coeducation. At the same time,
it would not alienate a majority of the alumni
and student communities.

I suggest that this tactic be used for a two
year period within which you can easily judge
the results. Should this effort alone not be
fruitful, then, and only then take up coeduca-
tion as an additional solution.

I submit the above observations in the hope
that you will see that you are focusing on a sup-
posed solution that does not cure the problem.
Coeducation should only be addressed as an

51

    
   

uggestion of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

 

 

Shenandoah

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Girt cards will be sent, on re-
quest, to those for whom you
wish to purchase subscriptions
for Christmas or other special
times.

Si oties and poems from Shenan-

doah are chosen regularly for in-
clusion in the O. Henry Awards
for distinguished fiction; the
Pushcart Prize: Best of the Small
Presses; The Random Review:
anthology of the best American
writing appearing in U.S.
magazines; and The Best
American Short Stories, publish-
ed by Houghton Mifflin Co.

 

Me
i
We are happy to inform

you that you will

TECELVE

Shenandoah

as a gift of

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to Shenandoah (published quarterly)

1) One year @ $8 L) Two years @ $13

(1 Three years @ $18

 

 

 

 

My check for $ enclosed.

Name

Address

City State Zip

66

You are the best ‘“‘little’’ magazine in the
country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

I go on admiring /Shenandoahj, none in the
country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

The most dramatic example [of writers turn-
ing to small presses] in this present volume is
the late Jean Stafford’s last story, ‘““Woden’s
Day;’ (published in Shenandoah). It’s a section
from her unfinished autobiographical novel
“A Parliament of Women;’...and it
displays the . . . writing that used to earn Staf-
ford space in... The New Yorker. Thank
goodness, therefore, for Shenandoah . . .

—Bruce Allen, reviewing The Pushcart
Prize VI: Best of the Small Presses in
The Christian Science Monitor,

Aug. 10, 1981

William Abrahams, editor of the O. Henry
Prize Stories collection [observes]
that .. . Ploughshares, Kenyon Review, and
Shenandoah, for instance . . . put out as high
a quality story as The New Yorker.

—Coda, Poets & Writers Newsletter,
April/May 1983

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories ... Sixteen were first published
in... little magazines, .. . (Shenandoah),
for example, one of the best of these
magazines, from which I have taken two
stories .. .).

—William Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979; The O. Henry Awards

I can think offhand of only two or three
university-financed reviews in which the im-
pact of a strong editorial personality has
created a vital magazine. The examples that
come to mind [include] . . . the elegant and
rather patrician standards James Boatwright
has given to Shenandoah at Washington and
Lee.

—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America:
A Modern Documentary History
(TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

99

 

 

 

Second Class Postage Paid

24450

And Additional Mailing Offices

.

irginia

At Lexington, V

occke

WA GNOWHOITa

du noisiva the

anos ie 1 T3AINVO YW

 

 

 

 

