~)

Un

bheal

|

1

sve a1 a

1

O)
0)
—_
oO
-
©
c
e)

i

ing

Wash

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LT

ian
Appalac eins, Marion, Va.

ee cs i. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

eorgia i ixe
Cee ree, Healey Building
Baltimore, Mary land
j. Carl ee al .
pa Alabama
Bana rrondon, 1631 North Third Avenue

ral Kentucky
. Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
Ruge DeVan
Chattanooga, Tennessee
= 4, Avery
i Illinois
te eeorze W. Schnath, 734 Milburn Street,
Evanston, Ill.
‘ncinnati, Ohio
Pe aitred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road

rlotte, North Carolina
aaa I, Crist, P. O. Box 1045
land, Ohio a
oes Fiery, Union Commerce Building
ovington, Virginia
: R. i Cabell
mberland Valley
Aa Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
R. P. Sanford
etroit, Michigan
‘x Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
Tohn Bell, Tampa, Fla.

Gulf Stream ee
Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.

Houston, Texas a
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
James T. Noel
Louisville, Kentucky
George E. Burks, Commercial Building
Memphis, Tennessee
Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas
Gaylord J. Stone, Ft. Worth, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia
E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont
Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
: A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
George Haw
Roanoke, Virginia
Earl Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
outhern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
5 Los Angeles, California
t. Louis, Missouri
Joseph R. Long, 506 Olive St.
r1-State
U J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Pper-Potomac
L, Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
ashington, DG.
Brian Bell, Star Building

ae

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XVI DECEMBER 1940 No. 2
Pater i Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor....GkorGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

#

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PECSIOCHE <n Dr. R. W. Fowrxgss, 1915
Secreta) Harry K. (Gy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer ey a Dr. REip WuiITs, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

W. Carrot Meapg, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909

Joun C. Morrison, 1925
R. G. WuitTtce, 1924

 

 

Contents for December 1940

PAGE
The Library and Its Growth (The President’s Page)............. 3
VWeas icin arth ees diprarinn a a 4
Tae Cyrus Hall MeCornuck Library.) oe a 5
Wee teacaiie Tran: i tance ‘
apis “OC Oriente go a ee rt}
Tyie Tere OY le a ee ID
Pret a) ee eas 14
Weer Sperte bf roenects 66 on a 15
lgoeal Alin Aseacigtion Notes... ee es 18
ASS ANRC ee 21

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ee

The Library and Its Growth |

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

usr ApouT the time our alumni receive this issue of the
J Magazine, we open for the use of our present students
the new library building. It is the old building almost
doubled in capacity, made fireproof, brought into truer
harmony with our architectural pattern,
adapted to best library experience in gen-
eral as applied to our own needs and pur-

poses. sk oR Ook

Here will be housed the greater part of
our collection of more than one hundred
thousand volumes ; here will be a dozen or
more special rooms for varied processes
of learning with books and from books;
here will be several rooms for particular
collections of historic or sentimentally pre-
cious volumes. We are adding a resource
of incalculable value.

he

This significant moment is really a
stage in a long growth. To look at the new structure, with
all it implies, is to remember the consistent emphasis our
institution has placed upon books, and to remember also
many generosities and devotions that have made valid this
emphasis.

ee

The first solicitation of funds for this school, ordered
in April, 1775—hbefore the name was changed to Liberty
Hall—was to secure “immediately some books and philo-
sophical apparatus.” The first “‘president’s report” sub-
mitted to the Board (this was on January 1, 1777) indi-

cated that 230 pounds had been expended, principally for
this purpose.
eo eee

The institution boasted at that time of a library of 300
volumes.

He Me oR

Of the first dividend from George Washington’s gift,
3 large part was spent for books. By 1817, an annual ap-
Propriation of $500 was being made.

eee ee

W hen Lee became president, heroic efforts were made
a =
F once to restore the library, devastated during the war

 

years. Rathmell Wilson of Philadelphia made a gift beau-
tiful in spirit and immensely helpful in effect, the collec-
tion of his brother’s scientific library as an offering from
the North to the Southern leader and his school.

a 6K OK

W. W. Corcoran of Washington, an-
other friend of Lee, purchased the How-
ard Library of several thousand volumes
and gave it to this college.

ea ae

As the nineteenth century neared its
end, the University received the library of
the Franklin Society, the old literary and
debating club of the Lexington citizens.

We

In 1905 Andrew Carnegie gave $50,000

for the construction of a separate library
building, the structure that we have enlarged into the new
edifice.

BN >k K

Donations for the enrichment of this intellectual re-
source continued. In the middle twenties we received the
impressive and unique Decatur Axtell collection of about
3,000 volumes. At the same time we received a collection
of 400 volumes, nucleus of the Lee Bruner Memorial
Library of Dramatic Literature.

—  *

Gifts large and small have sustained the tradition of
library importance. Thomas H. Patterson of Philadelphia
left a bequest, used for the acquisition of many volumes
we could not otherwise have secured. Mrs. John H. Moore
set up a special room in honor of her father; and the
parents of Joe Ford, who died while a student, set up a
special collection in memory of their boy.

oe

In 1935, I was privileged to report four unique gifts.
An alumnus, Dr. John M. Glenn, gave a collection of 115
volumes of the English poets; Mr. EF. B. Morris of Phila-
delphia sent $100 in cash to purchase Lee material; Mrs.
D. B. Easter, widow of a beloved professor, gave her
husband’s collection of 3600 volumes; and Mrs. B. L.

(Continued on page 32)

[3 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Lee's Librarian

LC WE WERE seeking a name for this issue of the Maga-
zine, we should call it the Library Number. Our front
cover features a sketch of that greatly-improved edifice ;
on the back we have a photograph of it taken before it was
rebuilt, and one of our leading articles is written about it.

Foster H. Mohrhardt, the writer of the article last
mentioned, was appointed librarian of Washington and
Lee University in
1938. and so far
as the Alumni
Magazine is con-
cerned, practically
hasn’t been heard
of since! But Fos-
ter Mohrhardt is
not the kind of
person who gets
himself heard of 1f
he can ‘help. it.
Even in this case
we're virtually
dragging him into
print by the col-
lar!

Which reminds
us that we hope
we shan't be called
upon to do any lit-
eral dragging of
our librarian by
the collar because we have learned through inside sources
that out in Michigan a few years ago he was known far
and wide as “Brute” Mohrhardt, the terror of the Michi-
gan State Wrestling team. And most of our own wrest-
ling has been done (unsuccessfully) with our conscience !

It appears that when the “Brute” went to college, he
wanted to play on the football team as he had done in
high school, but at 110 pounds this seemed out ot the
question. Therefore, he went out for the wrestling team
with the result that he made his letter all four years and
was state A.A.U. champion in his weight for 1928. He
still makes use of his old skill on occasion when he offi-
ciates in bouts at Washington and Lee.

But he was not giving all his time to athletics in col-
lege. He worked in the library, and during 1928-29 he
was assistant to the librarian at Michigan State. He took

es

 

Foster Mohrhardt, University Librarian

ie snag in 1929 and then a Master’s in Library Science
from the University of Michigan in 1931. He has also™
studied at New York University, the University of North -
Carolina (where he was interested in playwriting ), Co-
lumbia, and Munich (from which foreign university he
holds a diploma. ) 7

He has been General Service Assistant in the library |
of the University”
of Michigan, As.
Librarian.
at Greeley State
College
at Greeley, COMME '
do; General Ase
tee in the New
York Public Lid!
brary, and, just
before coming to
Washington and
Lee, Assistant t@
the Chairman of
the Carnegie Ad-
visory Group on
College and Jun-
ior College Libra-

ries.

  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

sistant

‘Teachers’

This ex-wrest-
ler is on numerous
committees for the
Virginia State and
American Library Associations and has published articles
in the Junior College Journal, A.L.A. Bulletins, and Wil
son Bulletins. The Carnegie Corporation of New Yous
has also published his writings, and he is the author of <
basic book-list of 5000 books necessary in Junior Collegesy
a list which is now used by colleges as well. 1

What has happened to our own library during his
régime is evident on the front cover; yet he has helped
the university to accomplish all this without appearing t0
do a thing but wander about the campus chatting with 1
friends. During the interim since the old building was
taken to pieces last spring, the library collection has bee }
spread hither and yon from the attic of the Chemistf i
Ruilding to the cellar of Reid Hall; yet there has been m@
interruption of library service. How this was done, Ue
will have to ask the librarian. —G J7

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

The Cyrus Hall McCormick Library

By Foster Monruarpt

TT ou CAN afford to be extremely suspicious of any in-

BI ution where the facilities for physical education
are more expensive and more modern, better housed and
equipped, than the library. Harvard, for instance, has
about twenty libraries and a football team leaving much
to be desired: it is a university.” John R. Tunis made this
remark in his recent book “Choosing a College,” and it
seems quite pertinent to the present situation at Washing-
ton and Lee. Unlike many institutions, the athletic facili-
ties here are not now superior to those for library service.

It can safely be said that no other institution in this
country has a more adequate library building for its im-
mediate needs than we now have. The new library en-
ables us to provide all of the services which are necessary
and are expected in a modern college library.

No attempt was made to plan a building that would be
experimental or revolutionary. We did, however, depart
from customary procedure when we decided to plan a
building that would be primarily a students’ building.
This means that we not only had the students in mind
when we made our general plans, but we also gave them
precedence over the faculty and the library staff in all of
the details. It seems to us that our ultimate building gives
adequate facilities for the students, the faculty, and the
library staff.

The library as it now stands is the culmination of sur-
veys and plans that were started by Miss McCrum at least
ten years ago. She and the Faculty Library Committee
not only aroused interest in the library needs, but they
also considered and eliminated many suggested plans. It
was finally decided that the new building should be
erected on the site of the old Carnegie Library. When
actual drawings were made, it was found that the old
building could be used as an integral part of the new
structure. Thus our new library is not an expansion of
the old one, but is actually a new library with the old one
serving as a central core unit. The result has been ex-
tremely successful, and the present arrangement is prac-
ically What it would have been had we planned an en-
urely new building. Our present building is almost three
tines as large as the old one. However, because of the
highly efficient planning in the new structure, the usable
"Pace is increased at least five times.

| Before describing the various rooms, some general
Stat ch, ; 1
ment should be given concerning the character of the

library and the services offered. Since it was our desire
to make this a students’ building, we attempted by various
means to find out what the students most wanted in their
library. Their main requests were for convenience, effi-
ciency and comfort; qualities which were noticeably lack-
ing in the old building. In order to satisfy these needs, we
planned a compact structure with the stack unit in the
center and the service rooms directly accessible to the
stacks. We then placed as many of the general services as
possible on the first floor. It seems safe to estimate that
eighty per cent of the necessary use of the library by
students can be accomplished on this main floor. Since
the old building was extremely uncomfortable, an at-
tempt has been made to have the new library as attractive
and comfortable as possible. The most persistent student
request was for permission to smoke in the library, and in
the new building smoking will be permitted in any of the
public rooms except the Reference Room and the Stacks.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to supply photo-
graphs of the rooms to accompany this article. The fol-
lowing descriptive outline will attempt to give a partial
picture of the library interior.

Entrance Vestibule and Lobby

The main entrance to the library will be through a
colonnade similar to that on Washington College. En-
trance to the building is through a vestibule containing a
public telephone booth, a stairway to the basement, and,
on each side, stairways leading to the main floor of the
building.

Main Floor

At the head of each entrance stairway is a coat room.
From the stair landing you enter the Main Lobby which is
large enough to handle the services and traffic for the card
catalog and the circulation desk. The main reading rooms
are on each side of the Lobby, and the stack unit ad-
joins the rear of the Lobby. The stack section is enclosed
by the Lobby at the front, the reading rooms on the sides,
and the carrel section in the rear. There are two doors to
the stacks from the Lobby. The Lobby also contains the
card catalog cases and a display case for exhibits. Orna-
mental stairways on each side of the rear lobby wall con-
nect this floor to the basement and the second floor.

The large reading room forms the east side of the

[5 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

building. This room is 86 feet long and 35 feet wide.
The rear section will be used for current magazines and
the magazine indexes. The front section will provide
space for the use of books which will be placed on reserve
here for class use. There are two entrances to the stacks
from this room.

On the west side of the building the Lobby leads to
the Reference Room where encyclopedias, dictionaries,
bibliographies, indexes and similar material will be avail-
able for general use. This room is 62 feet by 35 feet.
There is one entrance from here to the stacks.

A door at the rear of the Reference Room leads to the
Preparations Division where the cataloging, classifying
and mechanical services will be carried out. This room
connects with both the Reference Room and the stacks.

At the rear of each stack level is a carrel or cubicle
section. hese rooms provide small quiet quarters where
students can study near any special groups of books in
which they are interested. Two of these sections will have
a typing room at each end. These separate rooms will be
partially soundproofed and will provide a convenient
place for students to type from books and magazines
which must be used in the library.

There are six stack levels which will have an ultimate
capacity of approximately 200,000 books. This is double
the number now in our collection. Since the stack unit is
completely enclosed with no outside windows, a special
heating and ventilation system has been installed en-
tirely for the stacks. Space has been provided for an ele-
vator which will be installed whenever money is avail-
able.

Second Floor

The main stairways in the Lobby lead to a large hall on
the second floor. The Bradford Art Collection will be dis-
played on the walls here. On the front of the building 1s
an unusually beautiful room which extends over the Ves-
tibule and the Lobby. This room will be used as a
Browsing Room for the students whenever money be-
comes available to furnish 1t.

The east wing of this floor is divided into three large
rooms, and these form the rare book section of the li-
brary. The front room will house our valuable collection
of material concerning General Robert E. Lee and will
be known as the Lee Room. The center section will con-
tain the University Archives and Records. The rear room
has been designated as the McCormick Room and will
house our rare books and material which we collect con-
cerning the inventor of the reaper and his descendants.

The west wing contains the Librarian’s Office, the
Music Room, a staff room, and public toilets. The Music
Room is a rather unusual library development. It will

| 6 |

  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

contain four private listening booths where individual stu.
dents may listen to records. ‘These booths are part of the
large room which is almost completely soundproofed, and
which will be used for music and language courses. |

Basement

The basement is divided into smaller rooms than those
on the other floors. Seminars, storage quarters, faculty
studies, public toilets, a microfilm room, a receiving
room for boxes and packages, a janitor’s room, and 4
room for current newspapers are all in this part of the
building. There are front and rear entrances to the base-
ment. The rear entrance will give dormitory residents

convenient access to the building.
ek

The Faculty Furniture Committee cooperated in se-
lecting especially designed library furniture which would
not only be comfortable, but which would also fit in wit 4
the general architectural style of the University. J

No one individual or group is responsible for this
unusually attractive and efficient library. Nearly every
member of the administration and faculty has contributed
to the final development. Special mention should be made
of the Library Committee, composed of Professors Brad-
ley, Flournoy, Hoyt, Morton, Phillips and chairmar
Helderman. This committee devoted many hours of time
often at great personal inconvenience, to this project. We
were extremely fortunate in having the counsel and ad
vice of Dr. Wm. Bishop, Librarian of the University of
Michigan, who generously gave his assistance to us. A

deeply felt expression of thanks should be given to the
President and the University Trustees who approved and
allocated funds to our library program. The architects
were Small, Smith and Reeb of Cleveland who planned
the Washington College restoration in 1936. ‘

 

Dr. FREEMAN H. Hart, 1912, who has been Chair-
man of the Department of History at Hampden- Sydney}
College for fifteen years, has resigned his position to be
come executive secretary of the Pi Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity with headquarters in Atlanta. Dr. Hart, with de-
grees from Harvard and Columbia as well as Washington
and Lee, has taught in schools and colleges since oa
ation and has been national historian and president of F
Kappa Alpha. He has written a great deal on historia
subjects, being a contributor to the Dictionary of Ameri
can Biography, and a collaborator with Marquis James im
his Raven (the life of Sam Houston) and with Professor
Channing in parts of his history of the United States. :

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

We Escape trom France

By Davip BAILEY WHARTON

(Eprror’s NOTE: The following account of the last
of Republican France, furnished by David Bailey
Wharton, LL.B. 1937, ought, it seems to us, to be inter-
esting not only to our readers but to anyone wishing to
visualize the state of a modern nation invaded. Mr.

days

Wharton was accompanied on his
fight from France by his wife,
Frances Booth Wharton, whom he

e775 x9 \
refers to as oby. )

fkE nearly everyone else in

France, misguided by wishful
thinking, we stayed on 'til the last.
France couldn’t lose. The great
French army must be invincible.
The break at Sedan was bad, but it
Seuldnt be fatal. Paris fell. That
was just to save Paris. The magnifi-
cently trained French army would
reorganize and cut off the length-
ening German supply lines and deal
the death blow to the Nazis.

Suddenly the German power-
house was at Dijon and racing
south. The government changed.
Petain said, “We must have peace.”’
What we'd refused to believe, now
we had to accept. We rushed to our
consul in Marseille. Already, he had
moved his offices out of town in preparation for a pos-
sible French last stand in the Midi. Concrete barriers
blocked the roads.

“Get out of France !’’ declared the consul. ‘‘France is
nearly finished. If the United States goes to war, and the
Way Congress is talking anything might happen, you
would spend the rest of the war in a concentration camp.”

Bordeaux was the place to head for, he said. The
Manhattan was_ heading there; and if worst came to
Worst, a war ship would take off American men of mili-
lary age,
Was no time to lose! We hurried back to Aix-en-Provence
pncre we had been studying all year. We got back to our
“partment at three-thirty. By six we were packed, had
s affairs and were ready to leave. All busses

Owded with young boys of coming military age,

 

The situation became suddenly desperate. There:

fleeing before the approaching Boche. The prefecture of
police said the Germans would be in Aix by morning.
French troops and caissons thundered through town in
full retreat from the north. All English people were
gathered on the Cours Mirabeau trying to get busses or
taxis to Marseille to get the seven
o'clock train to Bordeaux where
English nationals were being evac-
uated. This was rout—military and
civilian—before the propagandized
horror of the mechanized green-
grey troops, before the evil eye of
the Swastika.

All traffic lanes were jammed.
All means of transport were requl-
sitioned or filled. We tried to get a
porter, a taxi, anything to haul our
luggage to the bus depot. ‘Two
trunks and eight bags were too
much to carry by hand. But not a
porter, not a taxi, not a push-cart
could be had for hire or bribe.
Italian-driven milk buggies refused
to assist. In the melodrama of an
eleventh hour reprieve, we found a
small cart in front of a grocery
store. The proprietor said we could
borrow it.

David B. Wharton, LL.B. 1937

With sweat streaming down my
face, I threw everything on the wagon and tied a rope
around it. With Toby supporting the top-heavy load and
I pulling, we bid farewell to our patioed apartment, our
old-maid landladies and their cats. It was now a race
against time. The last busses quit Aix at eight and crowds
were waiting to catch each departure.

We got to the bus stop only to learn that thirty kilo
was all that we could carry. Others were abandoning
everything, carrying only one bag and packs on their
backs. Dictated by the instinct of acquisition and a belief
that we could still get out with everything, we pushed on
to the train depot. Well-intentioned pessimists along the
street said we were wasting our time. All trains had
been stopped. Fortunately it was only panicky rumor.
There was a train out at ten.

It was close to midnight before we reached Marseille

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

with all our luggage and our bicycles that we brought
along in case we should have to take to our own means to
get out of the country. The next train to Bordeaux was at
five in the morning; so we slept in the station with hun-
dreds of others.

The trip to Bordeaux is usually twelve hours. It took
us thirty-six. We shared a compartment with a group of
youngsters from an airplane factory in Paris. Their
company had told them to leave for Toulouse the night
before the Germans entered Paris, and, with no further
instructions or money, had sent them off. They had al-
ready been on their way for seven days, their trains shut-
tling back and forth across France trying to avoid the
Germans. Three times they had been bombed and ma-
chine-gunned. They hid under luggage and benches as
bullets sprayed through the cars killing people in ad-
jacent compartments, killing the locomotive engineer and
fireman. These boys had only bags of tinned food and
cigarettes that the government gave away to keep them
from falling into the Germans’ hands. Bicycles and ex-
cess luggage they had thrown into the Seine rather than
abandon them to the enemy.

The station at Toulouse was like Times Square sub-
way station at rush hour. The police would not allow
people to leave the platform. An expectant mother started
labor and had to be removed by the Red Cross. Planes
flew over the train for protection. We passed troops just
returning from Dunkerque who had different stories
from those given in heroic press dispatches. Whole regi-
ments had been slaughtered, others decimated. We talked
with a group of thirty-five, the remainder of a unit of
fifteen hundred. Armed only with rifles to fight tanks,
they said that their officers got in cars and drove off
when the tanks advanced, leaving them to fight or es-
cape as best they could. They tried charging the tanks
only to be mowed down by the machine gun fire or to be
crushed under the relentless lugs of endless armored
waves.

From the time we left Aix, where we had a farewell
meal of paté de foie gras and champagne, we ate nothing
but bread and cheese (when we could get it) at stations.
At every flag stop and hamlet we stopped to get tele-
graphic messages from ahead to see if it was still safe to
proceed. The delays were our fortune. Instead of reach-
ing Bordeaux in twelve hours, we arrived twenty-four
hours late, missing the bombardment O: that city by ten
hours.

With each step in our flight, conditions became
more disintegrated and panicky. Marseille had been a
teeming military camp preparing for street fighting.
Bordeaux was an open city but so crowded with refugees
that rooms were next to impossible to find. We had been

[5 |

 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

looking forward to having a good hot dinner at last
Dinner hour in France is eight o’clock. By seven we
could wait no longer. But we were already an hour to¢
late. All restaurants were filled and had no more foo¢
left; over half of the city’s restaurants were permanently
closed for lack of food. We got the last loaf of bread in
bakery, which we shared with a person who came in jus
after us, who hadn’t eaten for twenty-four hours. A tig
of sardines completed our meal. By asking at little ero.
ceries and small shops, we finally found a person with,
spare room who was willing to take us in for the night, ii
we would sleep on the floor. We did with pleasure. Other
were sleeping in hotel lobbies, busses, any available shelter

The consulate here could do nothing except say tha
the Manhattan was not coming to Bordeaux and for us t
get to Hendaye on the Spanish border, whence we shoul |
be taken to Lisbon. a

A chauffeur with an empty car, and, miraculously, ;
full gas tank, offered to take us and luggage to Bayonne
thirty kilometers from the border, for a thousand franes
Everyone said that was cheap; take it; train service in n
possible. :
Two things stymied the set-up. When we called f
the luggage at the station, a hand trunk and large ba
were missing; and even with that missing, we could no
get all the stuff and people into the car. We decided 0
taking the baggage: Toby and Hal to go ahead with 1
that we had; I to stay behind to find the two missin
pieces and take a chance on the train service in fh
morning.

Hal put me wise to the Red Cross quarters where ;
was possible to get a cot for the night. !

The missing pieces I found at last about a quarter off
mile from the station in an old market place where a lo
of baggage had been thrown helter-skelter in an at
tempt to relieve the congestion at the station. q

One train left at nine that night, but did not go all th
way to Bayonne. I was tempted to take it for fear the
train service would be disrupted at any moment and?
would be better to get part way than no way at al
However, the temptation of a good night’s sleep on
cot and a hot dinner was stronger; so I stayed over f0
the seven o’clock express in the morning.

I got to the station at six the next morning. A bi
sign advised all comers, “ALL TRAINS SUPPRESSED IN
DEFINITELY.” The ticket windows were closed. Cal
were guarded by soldiers. Crowds milled around in
daze wondering what to do. Where to go? I felt th
same, a hopeless futility. I might get a taxi. The clothes!
the two bags warranted the expenditure. But taxis wel
almost impossible to get. We had just been lucky the da
before. I still had one bicycle with me, the other havin

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Photo taken by Dave Wharton near the entrance to the bridge between Hendaye and Irun. Mrs. Wharton is next to the guard

been sent ahead. I could, if necessary, abandon the bags
and cycle. But I hated to admit defeat after getting
everything this far. As I was about ready to give up, a
fat, pompous little man shoved through the crowd wav-
ing a paper. The guards forced a way for him against the
angry murmurs and let him through the gates. It was
obvious then that trains were still running. It was just
that the public could not use them. Knowing how dis-
rupted all service was, I dashed madly in all directions
like a pup after a scent, trying to find some unguarded
door. I didn’t find an unguarded one, but I found one
Where the guards didn’t seem to mind who passed. I
asked no questions but entered.

The trains were coming and going fairly close to
Schedule. The few civilians who got through were not
molested, but the trains were for getting foreign troops
to San Juan de Luz to be evacuated to England. They
Were mostly Polish troops. My train had steam up ready
‘9 pull out. T ran back, grabbed my hand trunk and large
bag, left the bicycle at the curb for whoever might find
it and rushed back through the guards who looked ques-
eeaingly but said nothing as I bustled by with sufficient
a ne x I was doing. As no tickets were

8 SOld, the trains were free.

As I said, each step was becoming chaotically worse.
Bordeaux had been worse than Marseille. Bayonne was
an uproar. ‘The streets were jammed with traffic. Every
vacant lot was filled with parked or abandoned cars.
The walks were almost impassable with people. For one
solid block in front of the Portuguese Consulate, the
street was a solid crush of people, fighting, pushing,
screaming, or just waiting to get in. Portuguese visas had
to be had before Spanish visas would be given, and there
was no other outlet from France. This was the begin-
ning of the bottle-neck which mouthed at the famous
international bridge at Hendaye.

A few boats lay in wharfage here. People fought for
passage on them, although the ships refused to announce
where they were going and when. Passage on them was a
risk, but those who had no alternative were glad to take it.

Rolls-Royces, Packards, all types of cars, especially
big ones, were being given away here for lack of gaso-
line or because people got on boats and could only take a
few hand bags with them.

I met Toby and Hal at a shelter where they had
spent the night gladly on straw mattresses on the floor.
We abandoned the last bicycle, cleared out all unessen-
tials and discarded a trunk,

Pe

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Next stop—Hendaye! Here was last-chance hysteria.
With the Nazis closing in from behind, people rushed
wild-eyed with fear like stampeded cattle for the bridge.
As we got in at night, we fenced off a section of the
station floor with our luggage, spread out the blankets
we had and slept the night there.

The next day, we found the American colony. The
consul was taking all passports in an endeavor to get
block visas to push all of us across at one time. Any in-
dividual effort was obviously futile. Cars were backed up
two deep for a mile behind the bridge. People had been
sleeping in their cars for two days and moving only a
matter of yards. This was the last post. People would
drive up, jump out, toss the keys of their cars to anyone
who wished them, grab a few pieces of luggage and run
for the bridge. If they had visas, they might get across.

The first block of Americans moved across that day.
We grabbed a couple of rooms vacated by our departing
compatriots to await comfortably the second block that
was being formed. Someone had tossed us two thousand
francs that we didn’t want. We set about trying to get
rid of this during our last hours in France. Stores were
closed for national mourning. The cigarette and tobacco
stock was exhausted. We bought the best foods, the best
vintages and lived like princes after having lived for a
week like paupers.

The next day we crossed—twelve hours to cross a
little cement bridge from Hendaye to Irun, twelve hours
in the rain. But were we glad to get across!

After that, everything was anti-climax. Twelve days in
Bilbao where food was scarce and prices high, where
millionaires could be seen sniping cigarette butts in hotel

                                                       

the first time in a year. There’s nothing more amazing
than a brilliantly-lighted city at night time.

But we were no longer true refugees. A special train
rushed us to the Manhattan at Lisbon. On shipboard, our
flight became a pleasure cruise that sapped us of our
proper dignity. We felt like a banner headline that’s gone
stale before it reaches the street. We were just so many
people returning to New York in the middle of July
without jobs.

 

New Arrivals
1923

Mr. AND Mrs. Braxton DEw announced the birth of
a son, Carter Braxton Dew, on the 3rd of November.

1925

Mr. AND Mrs. Roy Stack announced the birth of a
daughter, Susan Yates, on November 13,

| 10 |

The Cover

Tue University was unusually fortunate in securing
the services of Mr. P. A. Smithhisler who sketched the
facade of the McCormick Library for our cover. My,
Smithhisler has been on the campus for several months a
a representative of the architects of the building, Smal]
Smith and Reeb of Cleveland, Ohio. ;

As a basis for comparison, we are running an em
graving on the back cover which shows the old library

  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
  

building.

 

New Name for Our Library

SINCE the new building was constructed with money
given by the McCormick family, it seemed very proper ‘
name the new library the Cyrus Hall McCormick Library
in memory of the inventor of the reaper. Mr. McCormi |
was a member of the Board of Trustees for twenty year
and was in a great measure responsible for the develop
ment of Washington and Lee in the latter part of th
nineteenth century. {

Although the old Carnegie Library was completelall ab
sorbed in the new building, the University has not forgot
ten the great service which this building gave for thirt t
years. A plaque will be placed in the new building in men i
ory of Andrew Carnegie and his gift to this Universit

in 1908.

 

Weddings
1929

WILLIAM Birt HarriIncron married Miss Florene
Ruth Cadwallader on September 26 at the Archbishop
Palace at Manzla,-P. T. 4

1933

Wiceur Wricut Marrox was married on Septembt
29 to Miss Jean Moss in York, South Carolina. “Mon
the second” will be remembered as an outstanding athlet
having been halfback in football, catcher in baseball, ar
a member of the wrestling team. He was also a memb
of Kappa Sigma, O. D. K., and Sigma. |

1940

EarL Morcan, JR., was married September 27
Mary Carroll Engleman of Lexington, Virginia. He
working in the Advertising Department of Crowell- Colli
Publishing Company, 250 Park Avenue, New York.
residence address is 144-32 35th Avenue, Flushing, Né
York. {

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Campus Comment

By KENNETH VAN DE WarTER, ’41

HE OLD ORDER Changeth” holds true once again, and so
ii keep in tune with the times, the Alumni Secretary
plans to have in each issue of the ALUMNI MaGaZzINnE an
article relating student activities and events which may
be of interest to the alumni, and bring back more vividly
the days when they “hi
gentlemened” their way
across the campus.

mor the past sevetai
weeks lines of type reading
“One for the Money” scat-
tered throughout the
“Ring-tum Phi’’ have
caused wonderment among
the students. The mystery
was solved when it was an-
nounced that the second
annual varsity show ‘One
for the Money” will be
shown to the public on Fri-
day, the 13th of Decem-
ber. High light of the ex-
travaganza will be the
“faculty frolics” in which
“Gypsy Rose” Mattingly
will defend the crown
which he (or she) captured
in last year’s parade of fac-
ulty beauties.

Mardi Gras in old New
Orleans will be the setting
for the 35th Fancy Dress
ball. President Charles
Chapman has promised plenty of color, and merriment
should reign the night of January 31.

Tau Kappa Iota’s drive to raise funds for an “iron
lung” for the local hospital is being backed heartily by
students and townspeople, and praise from the latter
has been showered upon this group for their work.

Each week Professor George Foster’s public speaking
Class takes the spotlight with a half-hour broadcast over
d nearby radio station. ... And in fact there is a student
Station operating this year from the freshman dormitory.
Ingenious frosh Ted Allen has set up WLU and is on
the air during the afternoon and night with snappy chat-
fer about students and recording programs sponsored by

Cee

 

local merchants. (He’s using a “wireless” record player
for a transmitter. )

Returning for the third time in as many years, Pierre
De Lanux, French author and lecturer, brought his ideas
on the cause of the downfall of France. Next on the
roster is Dr, Brehovw:
Zimmerman, economist,
who lectured to capacity
audiences in his last sever-
al visits here.

The year’s first issue of
the “Southern Collegian”
rolled off the press a short
time ago containing a “fifth
column handbook.’ ‘The
supplement, composed of
eight pages printed in red
ink and full of swastika
emblems and bold head-
lines, was included ‘by the
Organized Nazis of the
Washington and Lee cam-
pus in the interest of a
Cause that is“ “Bund: ta
Win’ ” according to an ed-
itor’s notice.

Students jammed the
chapel each session during
the visit of Mrs. Mildred
Morgan, noted authority on
relationships between men
and women. She urged un-

Photo by Jack Peacock dergraduates to concern
themselves with more vital things than “sex, speed and
sport,” and set about to make the difficult personal ad-
justments which the modern world forces upon them.

Beta Theta Pi copped the 1940 intramural football
crown in decisive style when they whipped the A7T‘O’s
team 13 to 0. ... Cy Twombly now moves his program
into winter sports with volley ball and basketball starting
within the next week. Intramural competition is keen

 

these days with some of the houses going as far as run-
ning training tables for their teams.

The Inter-Fraternity Council is really busy this year
trying to aid the individual houses in any way that they
can... . On the table for discussion now is a plan to

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

raise scholastic requirements for initiation. Another plan
adopted at the beginning of the year calls for the audit-
ing of each house’s books by Accountant Sam Rayder,
and it’s helping the housemanagers no end in keeping
their financial matters from getting tangled up.

Last year there was quite a row about authorities
compelling the out of state students to purchase Virginia
tags for their cars, and this year the situation has been
remedied by allowing all men from states having full
reciprocity agreements with Virginia to go unmolested.

Plans for this year’s issue of the “Calyx” are booming
under the editorship of Jimmy McConnell. To date nearly
650 have signed to have their pictures in the annual... .
Jim deserves credit for dropping the picture prices, and
critics that have seen some of the dummy pages claim that
the “little man” really has something.

Dr. Reid White in cooperation with the biology de-
partment is conducting a study of the correlation of sleep-
ing habits with health among the students. . . . They al-
ways have to wait until everyone’s senior year before
they tell him just why he didn’t make the honor roll for
the past four years.

After the Cornell-Dartmouth fluke this fall, every-
one is wondering why something couldn't have been done
about that last play of the George Washington-Generals
game at Homecoming. The GW game in Washington
next fall ought to be a real drawing card.

‘The injuries on this year’s varsity squad has cramped
its style a great deal... but the frosh this year looked like
a bunch of really smart ball players. ... In three games
they beat teams with plays they had only practiced against
the varsity for five days ... and even went as far as down-
ing the Richmond yearlings with Richmond plays... .
Here’s hoping they keep playing such heads-up ball.

The names of 21 men were chosen to appear 1n the new
issue of ‘““Who’s Who in American Colleges and Univer-
sities.’ Those included were Allen Snyder, Cecil Taylor,
Fred Bartenstein, Bobby Hobson, Dodo Baldwin, Bob
Boyce, Bill Buchanan, Charlie Chapman, Emory Cox,
Dick Day, Cameron Dean, Howard Dobbins, Fred Far-
rar, Charlie Hobson, Bob Gary, Homer Jones, Jack Man-
gan, Jimmy McConnell, Jimmy Price, Ben Wakefield and
Henry Roediger. ... Now how about ODK?

It is hoped that several of these items might interest
each of the alumni, and as this is the initial appearance in
the magazine of something of this type, criticism and
suggestions will gladly be accepted. Until next issue then,
we thank you for a page of your time.

 

CLARENCE W. (Fats) MEapows, 1926, was re-elected
to succeed himself as Attorney General for the state of
West V. irginia this; tall:

CoLoneL WitiiAMm TT. Lovins, 1914, who has been
practicing law in Huntington, West Virginia, for sev-
eral years, was elected to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of West Virginia last election day. Mr. Lovins has never
held public office before and appears to be the first Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus to be elected to the highest judi-
cial position in his state. The Tri-State Alumni Associ-
ation plans a smoker in Mr. Lovins’ honor next January. ~

 

Lioyp RUTHERFORD CRAIGHILL, 1912, on October 16, ’
was elected Bishop of Anking, China, by the House of 7
Bishops of the Protestant Episcopal Church. He is to
succeed the Right Reverend Daniel T. Huntington who —
resigned on October 15.

 

Major CLEMENT McMuLten, 1912, is Chief Engi-¥
neer for the government at the San Antonio Air Depot, |
San Antonio, Texas, where he is, in effect, the factory 7
manager of a plant employing about a thousand people q
engaged in the maintenance and repair of army air corps
engines, airplanes, and accessories. His older son, Frank, 9
is at present a cadet at West Point.

 

Marion JuNKIN, 1929, was selected by the Inter- |
national Business Machines Company as one of two rep-
resentative artists from the state of Virginia. His pic- 7
tures were shown at the Company's World’s Fair Exhibit
of Contemporary Art. ‘

 

DonaLp Gorvon Buck, 1940, expects to leave about
January 19 for a year’s training in the National Guard at |
Hinesville, Georgia. His mail should be sent to his home |
address, 11 Whitson Street, Forest Hills, Long Island,
New York.

 

Wedgwood Plates Received

Tue First shipment of Washington and Lee
Commemorative Plates by Wedgwood has been
received and delivered.

This shipment consisted, however, entirely of
the blue edition and was insufficient to fill more
than one-third of the orders held in the Alumni
Office. Consequently, orders were filled only for
those who had been first to call for complete blue
sets.

Since that time, word has been received that
another consignment left England on October 26.

 

 

 

[ 12]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Late “Only” Dold

CASUAL tourist driving through the Shenandoah Val-

ley, knowing no history and paying no attention to
signs, might pass through modern Lexington without ob-
serving that it was in any way different from other towns ;
for the coming of a well-paved road, with its inevitable
accompaniment of gas-pump
forests and neon lights has al-
most made the old town con-
form to the pattern of the
American highway. The less-
casual tourist would notice and
visit the two colleges and the
historic sites ; but only those of
us who have lived in the town
are aware of its true individu-
ality.

This individuality is made
up of people and what they cre-
ate—we could mention many
of these people, and so could
you. One of them—whom less-
recent graduates in particular
will remember—Mr. Henry O.
Dold—was lost to the town on
November 13, 1940.

It is said that the iron balcony on the front of the
building that was Mr. Dold’s shop, was once at street-
level, which shows how long the structure has stood at
that corner—-the corner straight across Washington
Street from the Court House in case you have forgotten.
At some time in the past this street was dug out to re-
move a bad hill. It could also be noted that only a few
months ago, the whole building was condemned as un-
safe and had to be more or less rebuilt.

In this building, three generations of Dolds carried on
a mercantile business, Mr. Dold’s grandfather making
loans to many of the people of the town before the banks
took over all financial operations. When H. O. Dold suc-
ceeded his father in the business, it had become profitable
to deal with students; and Mr. Dold must have been one
of the first Lexington merchants who specialized in giving
students a place to buy food and tobacco—and more par-
cularly, a place where they could loaf pleasantly.

Our own recollections of the Dold emporium do not
g0 back far enough to reach the days of his glory, but
We recall very well when we first noticed the somewhat-

 

O.” and his assitants

An old photo of “H.

worn sign, ‘The Only Dold,” and walked into the musty
interior of his shop. We cannot remember now what we
bought, but we shall never forget the tall, rather stiff Mr.
Dold with his pink face and white hair, standing there in
his formal wing collar and old-fashioned long apron. We
remember that he did not wel-
come us. He seemed a little
eruff, and we were inclined to
feel that we had been. wrong
to enter the place without an
invitation.

Sometimes it seems strange
how little one knows about the
people one sees almost daily.
There was Mr. Dold, for in-
stance, in his old-fashioned
shop on Main Street, keeping
doggedly to his old-fashioned
costume. Who would have
thought that Mr. Dold was a
great traveller who had been
nine times to Kurope during his
life, had visited most of its
many countries—had seen the
pyramids of Egypt—had found
his way along by Masonic symbols when he did not know
the language—had visited Masonic lodges—met people—
returned to Lexington to deal with students, some of
whom were repelled by his positivism—some attracted?

 

Alumni of the not-very-old days must remember the
Hot Vienna Sausages in ‘The Only Dold’s’” shop—the
conversations about this and that—the time they thought
they were wasting, which, on second thought perhaps they
were not wasting because education comes from other
sources as well as from books. Each of the alumni of that
period must remember dozens of incidents that cluster
around that old building.

During the past few years there was little business at
the Dold establishment. Something happened—perhaps a
falling out with a large group of students and cadets—
perhaps the inevitable process of human change that at-
tacks even such a college town as Lexington. Or perhaps
the current taste for Vienna sausages shifted to ham-
burgers and hot-dogs.

Custom has taken Washington and Lee students to
(Continued on page 32)

[13]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

1870

Jupce James McFappin BLANDING, one of the
last surviving alumni who studied at Washnigton College
under the presidency of General Lee, and whose article on
student life in that period may be remembered by readers
of the ALUMNI MacazinE for July, 1939, died on Sep-
tember 22 in Italy, Texas.

He is survived by a daughter, Mrs. K. G. Stroud and
a son, H. O. Blanding; two grandchildren, three sisters,
and one brother.

1886

Dr. SAMUEL 8S. GUERRAN’ died on October 28 at his
estate, “Algoma,” near Callaway, Virginia. After a few
years’ practice of medicine in Roanoke and elsewhere, Dr.
Guerrant gave up medicine to develop the orchards
owned before him by his father, which he did with such
success that at the time of his death he owned 3,000
acres, chiefly devoted to apple orchards. From this farm
he had sold apples here and abroad developed from strains
that he had studied and perfected. He had been president
of the Virginia State Horticultural Society, chairman of
the county school trustee electoral board, and a pioneer
member of the Piedmont Presbyterian Church.

He 1s survived by his widow, four daughters, and six
sons.

1892

Dr. WILLIAM REYNOLDS VANCE died at his home in
New Haven on October 23, 1940, after a brief illness. At
the time of his death he was Professor-Emeritus of the
Yale University Law School.

Dr. Vance was born in Middletown, Kentucky, May 9,
1870, the son of Robert G. and Fannie Stowe Vance. Fle
received the A.B. degree from Washington and Lee in
189zZ, the MLA. the next, year, and in 1895: the: Pin.
While he was doing graduate work here he was also in-
structor in English. In 1897 he received his law degree
and became professor of law, and later dean, a position
he held until 1903, when he went to George Washington
University. He remained there until 1910, the last five
years as dean of the Law Department. In that year he
accepted a call to Yale, where he was Lines Professor of
Law until he went to the University of Minnesota, re-
inaining there as dean until 1920. Since 1920 he has been
professor of Law at Yale.

In addition to his regular teaching, Professor Vance
had given courses at the summer sessions of the un1-

versities of Chicago, California and North Carolina. He
was a former president and secretary of the Association
of American Law Schools and was active in the work of
the American Bar Association, serving for a number of
years as a member of its standing committee on insur-
ance law. He was also chairman of the commission which
drew the charter of the city of Minneapolis.

He was the author of ‘Slavery in Kentucky” ; “Vance
on Insurance’; “Early History of Insurance Law,” and
“Cases on Insurance.”

Mr. Vance is survived by his wife, who was Miss
Anne Wilmer Hume, of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, and
two daughters, Frances $. and Anne G., who 1s an 1n-
structor at Ohio State University ; and a son, Thomas H.,
assistant professor of Hnglish at Dartmouth College.

1914

LaFavetreE RaNnpboLpH Hanna, law graduate of
1914, died of a heart attack on October 14 in a Birming-
ham hospital.

“Mark” Hanna will be remembered by his contem-
poraries at Washington and Lee as one of the most popu-
lar students in college, as manager of the football team,
and as business manager of the Ring-tum Phi.

Mr. Hanna, who did his undergraduate work at
Birmingham-Southern College, had practiced law in Bir-
mingham since 1914 and since 1928 had been a member
of the firm of Murphy, Hanna and Woodall. He saw
service with Battery “C” of the Alabama National Guard
during the Mexican border incident of 1916.

At the time of his death he was president of the
Goodwill Industries, vice-president of the Boyd Manu-
facturing Company; legal representative for the First
National Bank, the Birmingham ‘Trust and Savings
Company, and the Bank for Savings and Trusts ; instruc-
tor in commercial law at Birmingham-Southern, and
member and steward of the Norwood Methodist Church.

For two years he was president of the Birmingham
Methodist Laymen’s Organization; he was instructor in
the American Institute of Banking for twelve years.
From 1915-1920 he was special representative for the
United States Department of Justice. He was a member
of the Birmingham, Alabama State, and American Bar
Associations, the Knights of Pythias, the Masons, the
Elks, and the Phi Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Phi, and Omi-
cron Delta Kappa fraternities.

Surviving are his wife, and four sons.

[ 14 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Winter Sports Prospects

By W. L. HEARTWELL, JR., ROBERT STRELE, LATHAM 'T'HIGPEN AND KENNETH VAN DE WATER
Members of the Advanced Reporting Class

Basketball

rospEcts for another top notch
court team this season depend
on.a series of important “ifs.” If
Captain Howard Dobbins’ trick
knee responds to treatment; if
Dick Pinck recovers speedily from
an attack of arthritis of the feet;
if the strenuous 23-game schedule
does not prove too tough a grind;
if last year’s elongated and high
scoring frosh quintet can adjust
their play to meet the require-
ments of Coach Cunningham's
“stress on defense’’—the Gener-
als will be hard to stop in state
and conference circles.

The Blue basketeers, who last
season successfully inaugurated
Cunningham’s first year here by
clinching the state title, should be
an improved aggregation over the
Generals of last year. Despite the
loss through graduation of Leo
Reinartz and Ronnie Thompson-——
two great defensive guards, five

 

Bobby Pinck

 

 

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.

Dec.
Dec.

Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Feb.

Basketball Schedule

11—Lynchburg College, home
14—-George Washington Univ., home
18—Morris Harvey College, Charleston,
West Virginia
19—-Game pending
20—Western State Kentucky Teachers,
Louisville, Kentucky
21—Evansville College, Evansville, Ill.
7—House of David, home
10—University of North Carolina, home
11—William and Mary College, home
14—University of Maryland, home
15—Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia
18—University of Virginia, home
25—Virginia Tech, home
4—-Furman University, home
6—Roanoke Coll. (location undecided)
8—University of Maryland, College
Park, Maryland
11—Duke University, home
14—University of Richmond, home
15—Duke University, Durham, North
Carolina
17—-University of North Carolina, Chap-
el Hill, North Carolina
21—William and Mary College, Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia
22—-University of Richmond, Richmond,
Virginia
24—University of Virginia, Charlottes-
ville, Virginia

The Southern Conference tournament at
Raleigh, North Carolina, will be played Feb-
ruary 27-28, March 1.

 

 

 

Dobbins

Dick Pinck

[ 15 |

 

lettermen are on hand to furnish
the backbone of the squad, aug-
mented by seven aspiring sopho-
more candidates.

Captain Dobbins, the smooth-
est ball handler on the squad and
the second highest scorer for the
Generals for the past two years,
will be at center. The 6’ 3” Louis-
ville boy was an Associated Press
all-state selection last season.

At one of the forward posts
will be flashy Dick Pinck of Pat-
terson, N. J. “Sir Richard” has
accumulated over 800 points in
his three years at Washington and
Lee and has been an all-state se-
lection for the past two seasons.
He holds the Southern Confer-
ence scoring record of 34 points
in one game, counted against
Richmond his sophomore year.
But he may spend at least the first
part of this season on the bench,
recovering from arthritis brought
on by infected tonsils.

 

Gary

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The third of the ‘regular’? seniors is Bobby Gary,
6'1” guard from Beaumont, Texas. Bobby’s specialty 1s
one hand shots and Coach Cunningham is expecting the
flashy Texan to play his best ball this season.

Stan Carlson and George Gassman are the other two
returning lettermen. Both were used as reserves at center
and forward respectively last season and should play
more ball this year. Ed Cuttino, who played freshman
basketball here, but transferred to Clemson last year, will
he back on hand for heavy guard duty.

Of the seven sophomores who have “graduated” into
varsity ranks, four are certain to see plenty of action.
They are Johnny “Lugger” Ligon, aggressive guard from
Chattanooga, ‘Tennessee; Jeff Hudson, high scoring for-
ward from Covington, Kentucky; Dick Elis, 6'5” center
from Ashland, Kentucky; and Leo Signaigo, another
high scoring forward, from Welch, West Virginia. These
four boys, as freshmen last year, helped clinch the frosh
state championship for the Brigadiers. In a game against
Massanutten Military Academy, Hudson tallied 45 points.
Both Signaigo and Ellis averaged over 12 points per

game.

Three other sophs, Larry Galloway, Bob Myers, and
Johnny Kirkpatrick, are all capable reserves.

Coach Harold “Cookie” Cunningham is not overly
enthusiastic regarding the Generals’ chances on the hard-
wood. That 23-game schedule, which calls for tough
games at the tail end of the season, may upset the Blue’s
chances of reaching the Southern Conference tournament
in Raleigh.

Wrestling

THE return of only three varsity lettermen to an ex-
ceptionally small squad of wrestlers working out in Dore-
mus Gymnasium portends tough sledding ahead for the
Generals in the defense of their usual co-championship
of the Southern Conference.

Facing a seven-match schedule with a squad of only
15 men, Coach A. EF. Mathis finds prospects the gloomiest
in years.

Returning lettermen are Captain Tom Fuller of
Germantown, Pennsylvania, who wrestles at 145, Charley
Lanier, 155-pounder from Alberta, Canada, and Bob
Schellenberg, 175-pounder from Bear Creek, Pa. All
three lettermen are juniors.

Matches in Doremus Gymnasium this year will see
the Washington and Lee matmen pitted against the Ap-
prentice School of Newport News, Virginia, in their
opener on January 11; West Virginia, January 18; Illi-
nois; February 3; and Davidson, February 15.

‘Three sophomores, undefeated in freshman competi-

tion last year, will be out for starting spots in the wide-
open Blue lineup. This trio includes Sam Graham at 121,
Bud Robb at 136, and football letterman Lillard Ailor at
heavyweight.

Other varsity grappling candidates include Doug —

House, Jim Foard, W. B. Hopkins, Dick Basile, Charles
Schock, Henry Peeples, Jim Davidson, Bob Lambert,
and Don Adams.

Freshman wrestling prospects look ‘fairly good” this
year according to Mentor Mathis. The present yearling
squad boasts 20 men scattered throughout the eight di-
visions.

Wrestling Schedule

Jan. 11—Apprentice School (at Washington and Lee)
Jan. 18—West Virginia (at Washington and Lee)
Feb. 3—lIllinois (at Washington and Lee)

Feb. 8—North Carolina (there)

Feb. 10—North Carolina State (there)

Feb. 15—Davidson (at Washington and Lee)

Feb. 22—Virginia Polytechnic Institute (there)

Swimming

Facep with the task of replacing several key men,
Coach Cy ‘Twombly is counting heavily on newcomers to
fill out the depleted ranks of Washington and Lee's
swimming team.

Twombly, whose mermen ran up a record of 54
straight victories until William and Mary snapped the
streak in 1939, isn’t very enthusiastic about prospects this
winter. Not only was Brent Farber lost by graduation, but
Bob Schultz, a junior, has been ordered by doctors not to
swim this year. These men were two of the most con-
sistent point winners last year.

Twombly has drafted two upperclassmen and is count-
ing on them along with sophomore talent to build up the
squad. His chief concern is lack of proper reserves.

Charles Gilbert, a senior, will make his first appear-

ance with the swimmers as a sprint man. Evans Jasper, a —

junior, also has been called to duty.

Lynn Murdock, who won every event he entered on
last year’s frosh squad, will be a threat in the breast
stroke. Other sophomores include Bill Webster, Don
Richardson, Ben Crawford, and Joe Hellen.

The Generals will be strong in the back stroke, with
Webster, Jim Priest, Herb Friedman, Jack Crawford,
Bernard Pirog and Dan Garretson entered in the event.

Captain Bob Boyce will be counted on to ring up
many points in the diving events. Twombly rates him as
one of the best divers in the conference.

Freddie Pitzer, working with sophomore Murdock,
will be a key man in the breast stroke event.

Twombly isn’t expecting anything like the teams that

| 16 |

 

i a Be Tid

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

_—<—<_— ~

consistently used to win the conference title, but says, “If
we are lucky, we may have a fair season.’

Swimming Schedule

Feb. 8—North Carolina University, home
Feb. 12—North Carolina State, there

Reb. 14--V Fi, home

Feb. 17—William and Mary, home

Feb. 20—-Clemson, home

Feb. 22—Virginia, there

Feb. 26—Duke University, there

Mar. 1—State meet

Mar. 2—Southern Conference meet

 

 

Indoor Track

EXPECTING one of the largest squads to report for in-
door track, Coach Forrest Fletcher has called the open-
ing practice for December 9.

As is the tradition of Washington and Lee track
teams, Coach Fletcher explains, one man_ invariably
stands out above the rest of the squad, and this year
that runner appears to be Cliff Muller.

His assignment this year, according to. Fletcher, is to
win the 880 in the conference indoor meet, and if per-
formance thus tar this year means anything, Muller
should successfully carry out his task. In cross country
this fall, Muller was nosed out at the tape in the state
meet, and with that in his memory and his favorite race,
the 880, before him, he should live up to expectations.

Also in the 880 will be Bill Jennings and Bill Murray
both of whom are steady point gainers. Bill’s twin
brother, George Murray, should capably handle the mile,
as he now holds the school record for that event.

Bill Soule will be the timber topper this year, and will
have to do some fast flying to keep up the pace set by
hurdler Bill Whaley, who graduated last year after tying
the indoor conference record.

The loss of Bill Gwyn, all around man for the last
three years is particularly being noticed as there is no man
yet to take over his specialty, the high jump.

Jay Silverstein, sophomore, has taken on a tough job
when he tries to fill the shoes of Charlie Curl in the
dashes. As a yearling, Silverstein showed great promise in
winning most of the races that he ran, and should come in
handy in the relays.

The advantages that go with a large squad with several
outstanding men are what Coach Fletcher is counting on
tor his indoor session.

Rifle Team

WASHINGTON AND LEk’s riflemen are looking forward
to one of their best seasons this winter, with the emphasis
On national defense lending increased interest to this
Sport.

Dr. -M. H. ‘Stow, coach of the team, has 45 men
working out regularly on National Rifle Association
qualifications.

Actual competition will not begin until early in Febru-
ary after this preliminary work has been completed. Two
“postal” matches have been scheduled already with Yale
and Wheaton, and Dr. Stow hopes to line up eight or ten
more. Several shoulder to shoulder matches also are
being planned.

Five new rifles have been added to the team’s equip-
ment, giving it a total of ten modern range rifles. Prac-
tice sessions are held on the Virginia Military Institute
range.

Fencing

NEWLY-ORGANIZED this fall at Washington and [ee
after sporadic unsuccessful debuts earlier in Washington
and Lee history, fencing appears to have gained a foot-
hold on the campus under the hand of Bill Murchison,
freshman from Mocksville, N. C.

Murchison, who. organized the team, is currently
coaching a squad of 16 men who are working toward
Washington and Lee’s remaining encounters with Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, North Carolina, William and
Mary, Virginia Military Institute, Virginia, Richmond,
Maryland, and Norfolk Extension of William and Mary.

First of the 16 matches, to be played home-and-home,
was fenced at Virginia Polytechnic Institute on Novem-
ber 8.after only two weeks’ practice. Washington and Lee
lost, 3-8)

The Blue swordsmen plan to enter the South Atlantic
tournament, March 21-22, at Williamsburg. Currently
afoot is Murchison’s plan for an Old Dominion fencing
league.

Members of the squad who are trying for positions
on the nine-man team include Al Aisenberg, George
Blackburn, Ed Fountain, Bill Hall, Bob Holt, Tad
Humphries, Ted Kohr, Bill McCoy, Bill Manger, Dusty
Mallar, Bill Murchison, Bill Pendleton, Marion Scott,
John Stanley, Horace Teeny and John Wehncke.

 

Mayor Frank B. Hayne, 1915, has continued to
move about in the most troubled parts of the world since
our last account of his activities. Up to November 5, 1939,
he was military attaché to the legation in Moscow whence
he then moved to Helsinki, Finland. He stayed there until
April 11, 1940, when he was transferred to Stockholm
to serve as Military Attaché for Norway and Sweden,
where he was associated with Captain R. M. Losey who
was killed in Norway on April 21. He arrived in the
United States on July 11 by way of Berlin, Rome, and
Naples.

ae

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Richmond

Tur RicuMonpD AssocraATION met on October 18 to
elect officers and to create a strong backing for the com-
ing game against the University of Richmond (which
backing seems to have succeeded admirably ! )

The officers elected were: George FE. Haw, 1904,
President ; Clyde Allen, 1925, Vice-President; Edgar I.
Bostwick, 1930, Secretary; Carlton B. Jewett, 1921,
Treasurer.

The University was represented at the meeting by
Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson and Dr. Lapsley Carson,
members of the Board of Trustees; and by Dick Smith
and Coach Riley Smith of the Athletic Department. The
matter of the disputed touchdown at the George Wash-
ington game was discussed, and from evidence furnished
by motion pictures, it was unanimously decided that
there had been an error in judgment.

 

Birmingham
JouNn H&Npon was responsible for organizing one of
the most enthusiastic gatherings of alumni ever held in

Birmingham at the Thomas Jefferson Hotel on the night
of November 14.

The principal address of the evening was made by
-Dean Frank J. Gilliam. He outlined very carefully the
progress made by the University over the past decade and
stressed the advance made in freshman assimilation.

Cy Young spoke on Alumni activities and asked for
the continued cooperation of the local chapter.

The officers now serving were re-elected for another

year.

Among those present were: Courtney S$. Henley;
Borden H. Burr; Walter M. Hood; C. Mercer McCrum ;
Sorsby Jemison; Noble. B. Hendrix; Barclay : Dillon ;
R. E. Surles; William Underwood O’Ferrell; Wm. L.
Hogue; Evans Dunn; J. H. Willis; Richard Beard; Allen
Rushton; Darby Brown; James H. McGinnis; Howard
D. Leake; James Lucian Allgood; Ed. Aull; Jesse T.
Stallings; Harry M. Faull; William Hellier; Charles Al-
lison; James H.. Bryan; William L. Leap; Raleigh M.
Jenkins; Bestor Brown; Frank Smith; Walter F,. Coe;
Wm. Ewing Beard; Oscar Henry Geismer; Douglas P.
Wingo; James Gillespie; James R. Hendrix; and John F.
Hendon.

Memphis

MEMPHIS ALUMNI met for their annual fall meeting
on October 21 at 6:30 p. m., at the Peabody Hotel with
Stewart Buxton, president, presiding and introducing the —
guest of honor, Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, who made ~
a most interesting address on the affairs of the University,

Announcement was made of the scholarship fund to
promote Washington and Lee in the Tri-State territory.

Among those present were: Russ Pritchard; T. J.
Beasley ; James Durham; Vance Brooks; Henry Brooks;
Henry Jones; Stewart Buxton; Kenneth Kimbrough; —
Milledge Nail; Pete Friedel; Roger Bear, Cincinnati,
Ohio; George Steuterman; Julius “Gus”? Berry, Tupelo, ~
Mississippi; Hadley Hamilton; Bill Morgan; Gus Mor-
gan; Ward Archer; Jimmie Butler; George Powers; Bill
Brooks; Edwin Marx; Dr. Henry Gotten; Palmer@
Brown; Ira Samelson; Abe Goodman, Jr.; Dr. Sam J
Raines and his two sons, Albert Biggs and Sam Raines, —
Jr.; Milton Harris; Ted Kimbrough; Walk Jones, Jr.; q
and J. S. Edmondson.

 

Chattanooga

PrEcEDING the Sewanee game, the Chattanooga alum- —
ni met at the Hotel Patton on the evening of November |
15. Some forty enthusiastic alumni were present and |
heard talks by Dean Frank Gilliam and Alumni Secre- ©
tary Cy Young.

President Clarence Avery outlined arrangements for ©
the game on the following day and stressed the work the —
local chapter was doing in interesting local high and prep 7
school students in Washington and Lee.

At the close of the meeting Clarence Avery was re- |
elected President and Charles Claunch, Secretary.

 

Montgomery

Dr. Francis P. GAINES was the guest of honor at a J
dinner given on the evening of November 19 by the —
alumni of the University at the Beauvoir Country Club,
Montgomery.

Sam Englehardt, president of the local chapter, pre- ~
sided, and introduced the speaker.

Dr. Gaines reviewed the changes that have taken ©
place at the University in the past decade, and described
in detail improvements made and additions to new build-

[ 18 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

eS

ings and other properties of the institution in recent
years.
" With descriptions of old and beloved scenes and fa-
miliar haunts about the campus and its buildings, refer-
ences to its ancient and sacred traditions, and to its pride
now as always in moulding the character as well as the
minds of the young men who go there—the speaker
blended glimpses of the University’s present activities and
plans for the future in a fascinating word-picture of past,
present and future, that held his hearers’ attention
throughout.

Alumni present, with their ladies, follow: Charles
Arthur Ball; Richard A. Ball; Carl Webster Bear ; Clyde
Stuart Bear ; Fred C. Bear; Jack Compton Bear; Joe
Beank Bear: T; L.-Bear, Je; Henry H. Dill, [ri; Sam M.
‘ngelhardt ; Ethelbert Henry Evans; James D. Flowers;
QO. L. Haynes; Jackson Martin Hobbie, Jr.; Dr. 4 Bra
non Hubbard; John Michael Jenkins, Jr.; Joseph Rich-
ard McCoy; John Russell Marshall; Dr. Paul 5. Mertins,
fm; John B, Nicrosi; Herbert Schwabe Rice; Edgar
Wall Stuart; Jonathan Render Thomas; William C.
Thomas ; Jack Thorington, Jr.; John Wesley Vardaman ;
and S. M. Englehardt, Jr.

 

Charlotte

Unper the direction of John Crist, President, and
Murat Willis, Secretary, fifty alumni from both North
and South Carolina, met in Charlotte on the night of No-
vember 7 for the fall meeting of the local chapter.

A full schedule for the day preceding the meeting had
been arranged for Dr. Gaines who addressed the students
of the local high school in the morning, the Kiwanis Club
at noon, and made a visit to Davidson College in the after-
noon.

The meeting was held at the Hotel Charlotte at 9 Pp. M.
After all business was dispensed with, the group heard a
most interesting address by Dr. Gaines on the affairs ot
the University. Following his talk, moving pictures of
campus scenes and football games were shown.

 

Charleston

THE FALL SMOKER of the Charleston Alumni Associ-
ation was held, as usual, at the Edgewater Country Club
on November 1, the night preceding the West Virginia
game.

More than fifty enthusiastic alumni were present,
among them, Governor Homer A. (“Rocky”) Holt, who
made a most interesting talk.

“Dick” Smith, Graduate Manager of Athletics, and

Cy Young, Alumni Secretary, also addressed the meeting.

At the conclusion of the considerable business that was
before the meeting, moving pictures of the Vanderbilt
game were shown.

The following officers were elected for the coming
year: Ruge DeVan, President; John Capito, First Vice-
President; Ralph Smith, Second Vice-President, and
Jay Schwabe, Secretary and Treasurer.

 

New York

Tue Washington and Jee Alumni Chapter of Greater
New York held its annual meeting and dinner at the
Hotel Lafayette, New York, on November 1. There were
some fifty alumni present including Dr. George Bolling
Lee and Mr. Oscar C. Huffman, University trustees. The
meeting was presided over by William Moseley Brown,
President of the chapter. ‘he committee in charge of ar-
rangements consisted of Messrs. James A. Casther and
FE. W. Poindexter.

The annual report of Secretary-Treasurer Edward
W. Lee showed that the chapter was in a satisfactory
financial condition and that the membership was holding
up well, although it was pointed out that there are more
than 400 Washington and Lee alumni in the Greater
New York area and that more of these should become
active members of the association.

In his remarks, President Brown called attention to
the monthly luncheons held on the first Wednesday of
each month at Planter’s Restaurant, 124 Greenwich St.,
also the mid-monthly suppers held on the third Wednes-
day of each month at the Midston House, 38th St. and
Park Avenue. He urged all the members present to at-
tend these functions whenever possible.

Dr. Lee and Mr. Huffman made short addresses con-
cerning the present situation at the University. A letter
was read from Alumni Secretary H. K. Young, also one
from Dr. Gaines, in which these gentlemen expressed
their regrets at their inability to be prsent.

A very interesting feature of the evening was the
showing of motion pictures of the University, also of the
recent game with the George Washington University, in
which it was indicated, that Washington and Lee might
have won this game except for a very close decision of the
referee on one play.

The New York chapter is now considering ways and
neans for establishing a definite project, such as one or
more scholarships, which it is hoped will appeal to all the
alumni in the metropolitan area and which, at the same
time will be of assistance to the University. It is also
planned to designate a membership committee in the near
future, whose function it will be to endeavor to interest

(2? |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

more of the alumni in participating actively in the affairs
of the chapter. Functions planned for the remainder of
the winter season include the annual beer party in Janu-
ary and the annual dinner-dance in March.

On the recommendation of the Committee on Nomi-
nations, the following officers were re-elected for 1940-

1941: William Moseley Brown (’14), president ; Nelson
W. Burris (’26), vice-president; Edward W. Lee (’13),
Secretary-Treasurer. In addition, three new members of
the Council were chosen as follows: Hugh R. Hawthorne —
(10), W. J. L. Patton (’22), and William T. Owen §
C25

Dr. Phillips Collaborates on a New Text

Nortu AMERICA: Its PEOPLE AND THE RESOURCES, DE-
VELOPMENT PROSPECTS OF THE CONTINENT AS THE
Home oF Man. By J. Russell Smith and M. Ogden
Philips. New York: Harcourt, Brace and Company.

Professor M. Ogden Phillips, whose courses in the
Commerce School are well known to younger alumni, has
recently collaborated in revising a text-book, which ac-
cording to Malcolm Cowley in the New Republic may
possibly be the most important book of the year.

This book, called North America and intended pri-
marily as a text for courses in geography, was originally
written in 1925 by J. Russell Smith, professor of Eco-
nomic Geography in Columbia University, and it has
been used since that time (again Mr. Cowley’s words)
“by I don’t know how many colleges (and as a source
book by I don’t know how many New Deal pamphle-
teers.) Everything in the economic world moved so fast
after 1925, however, that a revision became necessary to
bring the book up to date, and to do the heavy work of
this revision, Dr. Phillips was called in.

Although Professor Smith is the real author of the
work, a great deal of credit is due to his junior collabo-
rator who worked many long and hard hours compiling
the material which makes North America virtually a
brand new book.

Professor Phillips, who has been teaching at Wash-
ington and Lee since 1929, was well fitted for the task;
for he 1s a man of considerable experience in business,
study, and travel. His Ph.D. dissertation on the subject of
tramp shipping so impressed interested persons 1n Wash-
ington that he was called in 1937 by Chairman Kennedy
of the Maritime Commission to assist in the preparation
of the commission’s report to the 75th Congress. Dr.
Phillips has also contributed articles to American and
Pan-American journals in his field.

The book sets out to survey the economic resources
of all of North America (not merely the United States),
to show what these resources are, where they are being
wisely used, and where they are being thrown away. It
also develops theories regarding what must be done lest
the riches of American earth be stupidly lost.

The authors try to answer the question, “What have —
we?” and their answer is, ‘““‘We have only natural re-@
sources. We have nothing else. Indeed, we have fewer §
material resources each day than we had the day before. —
We have no prospect of getting anything except that —
which comes out of the soil and earth of our country and ©
the work of our people, or is secured by trading what we 7
produce for things produced by other people.” .

The substantiation of these statements requires a vast —
review in which North America is divided into forty-five ©
economic sections, each fully treated in turn. The treat-
ment required 1008 pages, 49 chapters, 238 charts, dia-
grams, and maps; and 301 photographs. That ought to —
be enough to keep anyone busy for some time. Yet it
would be hard to disagree with the opinion of the re-
viewer in the New York Herald Tribune who says, “If I~
were in position to do so, I should require that it be —
thoroughly read by every high school student in the —
United States as a first step towards becoming an adult —
American.” '

Well, it looks as though the wishes of the reviewer ~
might be fulfilled—at least if you substitute “college
student” for “high school student’”—because a mere six —
months after publication (in May, 1940) a total of 78—
universities and colleges had already adopted this text, ©
and that alone is going to mean plenty of young readers —
who will learn what this country really contains and what i
it economically does. :

We suggest that alumni should be proud to hear of
this achievement by a Washington and Lee professor, and
they might also wish to hear that he was aided in proof-_
reading by four other Washington and Lee professors:
Marcellus H. Stow and Edward C. Lammers of the Ge-|
ology department, Larkin H. Farinholt of the Chemistry |
department, and Ollinger Crenshaw, 1925, of the depart-—
ment of History. Drawing most of the charts and dia-
grams, furthermore, were Professor J. Alexander Veech, q
1931, and James H. Bierer, 1940. 4

Being no geographer, we are not competent to say, but
we should be inclined to agree with Malcolm Cowley, that)
this is possibly the most important book of the year.

[ 20 |

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1892

Rees TurPIN has been en-
gaged 10 the practice of law in
Kansas City since the year he
left college. His firm is Turpin,
Behrendt & Searing, and their
offices are in the New York Life

Inasmuch as man

last spring, some of

 

which these notes are based came to us

out-of-date or unintentionally imnaccu-
rate. If so, we hereby apologize.

W. Ross McCain is Presi-
dent of the Aetna Insurance
Company. He gives no further
news of himself.

y of the letters on

the items may be

R. H. Rocers is with the San
Diego Stove. and Appliance
Company, 850-854 Sixth Ave-

 

 

Building.

V. E. TurnButv is Disbursing Officer, Third Naval
District, 90 Church Street, New York.

1893

THE REVEREND Mr. R. W. JopLine is Pastor of the
Presbyterian Church, 110 North White Street, Lancaster,
South Carolina.

R. E. Wape lives at 3850 Lyman Road, Oakland,
California.

1896

W. F. Houck lives at 465 Washington Street, Russell-
ville, Alabama.

FRANK FALion is the owner of a very successful
florist establishment near Roanoke, Virginia.

Wm. Dickson ApAMS lives at 1810 Marsalis Avenue,
Dallas, Texas.

1897

WituiaAM J. LINDENBERGER is in the Wholesale I*ood
Products business at 16 California Street, San Francisco,
California.

7+

 

nue, San Diego, California.

ARTHUR Tass is Manager of the Tabb Storage Ware-
house, Louisville, Kentucky.

1899

Dr. 8. C. Linp is Dean of the School of Chemistry of
the University of Minnesota Institute of ‘Technology,
Minneapolis, Minnesota.

W. C. Watson has been a draftsman with the New
York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, but is now
retired and lives at 45 Smith Street, West Haven, Con-
necticut.

JoHN Epwarp BurWELL has served as Common-
wealth’s Attorney for Floyd County, Virginia, for over
four years, and has been and is now Trial Justice for
Eloyd County. His address is Floyd Court House, Vir-
gina.

W. E. Davis has been in the coal mining business in
Eastern Kentucky since leaving college. He had a rather
serious operation in the spring and spent some time in the
‘“Surgeon’s Heaven,’ but 1s now well and back on the

 

 

Pee job. His home is in Lexington, Kentucky.
qi =
Dr. Mossy W. Perrow is still Health a Oh fay one
Officer for the City of Lynchburg, Virginia. cw Z, | Vayé y
. a | Rosert A. WaTSON is practicing law in

  

1898

W. W. Keyser, in spite of his handicap
of having lost about seventy per cent of his
eyesight, always writes his class agent a
nice letter. We appreciate this letter in the

Alumni Office, more than we can express in
words.

 

Lat
CNA pees

—=_

“All
S. GARLAND HAMNER is a member of the
law firm of Edmunds and Hamner, Peoples’

Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

WIN,
ae ally sit
fl “til

lh

     
      
  

Charlottesville, Virginia.

J. R. Tucker is General Counsel for the
Virginia Trust Company, 821 East Main
Street, Richmond, Virginia. He says that
the past year has brought forth nothing
worthy of record in his life except the ar-
rival of another grandchild, which, he says,
yuo is probably of more interest to him than to

those who graduated with him 40 years ago.

    
 

   
 

 

7 “tif
Muh aap

if AW

 

CHARLES F. HArRISON is an attorney

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and Counselor at Law, Leesburg, Virginia. He is Com-
monwealth’s Attorney.

L. R. Hotmegs is Manager of the Furness, Withy &
Company, Ltd., offices in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
where he has been for seventeen years.

Hitton S. Hampron is a member of the law firm
of Hampton, Bull & Crom, Citizens Building, Tampa,
Florida.

1901

E. D. Orr is practicing law in Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia. His offices are in the First National Bank Building.

A. Frep Wutrs is still living at 789 Thompson Ave-
nue, Donora, Pennsylvania. His oldest daughter gradu-
ated from Randolph Macon last year. The boy gradu-
ated from high school last June, and the youngest, a girl,
is still in high school.

1902

W. T° Euras is_a physician in Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. His address is 1115 Lindley Avenue. He says he
is rejuvenated every time he comes back to Lexington.

Jupcr Scorr M. Lorin is a member of the law firm
of Loftin, Calkins & Anderson, Miami, Florida.

J. P. Watt has been in the active practice of law for
thirty-seven years in Seattle, Washington. In 1923 he
organized the Canal Bank of Seattle, and was its presi-
dent for seven years. This bank was consolidated with
other banks in the city in 1930, and he retired from the
banking business. He says: ‘There are now seventeen in
my family—five fine young men; and with their fami-
lies, we number seventeen.”

Dr. Morrison HutcHekson is practicing medicine in
Richmond, Virginia. He is a member of the University
Board of Trustees and has a son who is a freshman at
Washington and Lee this year.

1903

Dr. Samuet McP. Grascow has been ill with arth-
ritis for several months, but is now on the way to re-
covery. He is Minister of the Old Scotch Church, Sa-
vannah, Georgia.

Joun M. Corserr is practicing law in Bay City,
‘Texas.

J. F. Wysor is County Treasurer of Pulaski County,
Virginia.

CLEMENT A. Boaz is managing the W. J. Boaz Estate

and dealing in city property and farm lands at Fort
Worth, Texas.

1906

J. W. Ecciesron is a Justice of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. His offices are in the New City Hall,
Norfolk, Virginia.

A. W. Rutan is a member of the law firm of Rutan,
Mize & Kroese, First National Bank Building, Santa Ana,
California.

F. R. Crawrorp is still practicing medicine in Farm-
ville, Virginia.

Water H. Dun Lap is with the Federal Power Com-
mission in Washington. His hobby now is a beach de-
velopment near Washington on which he and his partner
are doing all their own work, surveying, legal instru-
ments, subdivision problems, water works, and sanitary
engineering.

1907

FE. Ciypge Hocr is a member of the Lathrop-Hoge
Construction Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.

DonaLp W. M. MacCruer, D. D., is Pastor of the
Rose City Park Community Church, Portland, Oregon.

Wacrer N. Davs is with the Guaranty Investment
Company, Automobile Finance and General Insurance,
712 Rust Building, Tacoma, Washington.

1908
GrorGE PENN is a member of the firm of Kelly, Penn
& Hunter, Attorneys-at-Law, Kingsport, ‘Tennessee.

ABE STAPLES is Attorney General of Virginia.

Hrram Dow is Attorney General of New Mexico,
His home is in Roswell.

Jupce W. G. Lone is engaged in the practice of law
with offices in the McClain County National Bank Build-
ing, Purcell, Oklahoma. His son, W. G., Jr., who attended
Washington and Lee in 1932-33, was a candidate for
County Attorney of Garvin County, Oklahoma, in May,
1940.

Hunter J. Puiecar is a member of the firm of
Ellett & Phlegar, Attorneys-at-Law, Christiansburg, Vir-
ginia.

Joun W. NEwMaAN is practicing law in Little Rock,
Arkansas, with offices in the Pyramid Building.

THE REVEREND Mr. WitttAm P. Hooper is pastor
of the Highlawn Presbyterian Church at Huntington,

| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

West Virginia and besides his ministerial duties teaches
Bible at Marshall College. He has a married daughter.

WuEATLEY MILLER JOHNSON is one of the operators
of Clover Hill Farm, which was established in 1770,
near Manassas. He is also a supervisor of Prince William

County.

Rosert S. KEEBLER is an attorney in the Public Util-
ities Division of the Securities Exchange Commission and
is normally to be found in Washington but at present
he is on special assignment in New York City. He has
four children, one a junior at Randolph Macon Woman's
College ; and these and keeping track of
public utility issues keep him very well
occupied.

 

where his duties in engineering work have taken him. He
has four children, one of whom is a law student at Wash-
ington and Lee, one a cadet at V. M. I., and one a student
at Mary Baldwin.

CHARLES L. Syron is teaching Chemistry in Dallas,
Texas, and has been instrumental in having quite a num-
ber of Texas youth enroll at Washington and Lee. He has
one daughter.

Joun M. BIERErR is an executive of the Boston Woven
Hose & Rubber Company, which goes to show you never
can tell what a chemist can accomplish, or a class agent
finally turn out to be! Our congratula-
tions to the Company and to John. He
deserves the best, and they have the best.

; “y~ He has sent his sons to Washington and
Henry RicHArD MAHLER is Super- ay We be Meee Zz ~ one 5
AN VLE “&_. Lee and has ever maintained his loyal-
intendent of Schools at Thomasville, SA pe
: PN |! Ss; ‘. ty to his Alma Mater and to his many
Georgia, and wrote us a very nice letter sk \ SE fuends
substantiating his record as recently pub- ° oN oS oF
lished in the ALUMNI Macazine. He is the) Ciirton A. Wooprum is Congress-

very highly thought of in Thomasville iG =
and has held his present responsible po- ey NE
sition there for many years.

Roperts Cray MILLING wrote a gra-
cious and valued letter of April 10th
from New Orleans where his extensive law practice and
able counsel are well known.

GrEorcE McPuait MINETREE wrote us a nice letter
from the University Club in Washington.

EtMER W. Somers is an attorney at Accomac, Vir-
ginia. He deplores the fact that the court calendar is so
arranged as to preclude his getting to Lexington during
Finals.

ABE SOMERVILLE wrote a fine letter on April 11th
from CCC camp Miss. SP-9 Company 2442. Abe is
company commander at this Veterans’ Camp. We had
known he was in the army during the first World War.
and it would appear that though retired, he may be re-
stored to active duty as he is still young, active and able.
Abe gave us some news when he wrote that he also got a
‘dip’ from V. M. I. in 1918. He has a son and a daughter
and is also a bona fide attorney at law having for a time
engaged in the practice of this profession; but the call of
the wild made it impossible for him to remain within four
office walls. His address, when he wrote us, was McComb,
Mississippi.

FRED BARTENSTEIN lives in Warrenton, Virginia,

   
 

man from the 6th District of Virginia.
| His home is in Roanoke, Virginia.

E

_

JupckE Epwin C. Carrrey, Essex
Circuit Court, Newark, New Jersey, has
probably attended more Finals than any
other member of his class.

1909

SAM M. ENGELHARDT’? is a member of the Insurance
firm of Engelhardt and Garland, Agents, representing
the Aetna Casualty and Surety Company, Montgomery,
Alabama.

R. R. Brown is Director of Athletics at New Mexico
Military Institute, Roswell, New Mexico. He says there
are three Washington and Lee men on the faculty of
New Mexico Military Academy.

Witty B. Hampton is with the United States De-
partment of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, 249
Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Georgia. He is in charge of
buying submarginal land in the seven Southern States.
He had been in the saw mill business before his appoint-
ment to the Department of Agriculture. His family con-
sists of two almost-grown daughters and one son, nine
years old.

C. T. Dawxkrns is in the general contracting business
in Tampa, Florida. He has two girls and a fine boy eight
years old.

1910

LesTER B. Durrow has been Town Manager of the
city of Front Royal, Virginia, for the past ten years. He

[ 23 |]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

is married and has two daughters. The elder graduated
from Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Vir-
ginia last June.

Puit Witiiams of Woodstock, Virginia, has six
children, three sons and three daughters. His oldest son
graduated last June from Washington and Lee and is
back for an M.A. this year.

Martin WirHers is practicing law in Tampa, Fla.

Hucu J. Hacan has been practicing medicine in
Roanoke, Virginia, since World War I. He is married and
has three sons; 21, 17; and 11

Jok GassMAN lives at 905 Fountain Avenue, Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania. He is “presently giving taxpayers of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania a break by helping
the chief engineer of the Public Utility Commission of
the state adjust controversial matters between the com-
mon people and the ‘Economic Royalists’. He is married

and has two sons, one 15 and the other 13.

Joun Hernvon is still teaching at Haverford Col-
lege, Haverford, Pennsylvania. His son is a senior at
Washington and Lee this year.

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON lives at 1006 Overbrook Road,
Wilmington, Delaware.

Henry Dew is engaged in property management work
with the Florida National Building Corporation, Barnett
National Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

C. W. THarps lives at 809 Market Street, Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee.

A. Dana HopcpeEN is a senior consul in charge of
consular affairs in Berlin, as well as Secretary of the
Embassy. He has two sons aged 16 and 14. They have
been attending the Episcopal High School in Alexandria
for the past several years.

Burroucus NogLL is managing a 900-acre farm
about twenty miles from Lynchburg, Virginia, which has
been in his family for several generations.

J. Nevin KitMeEr is practicing law in Martinsburg,
West Virginia.

Ben P. ArnsworTH is still practicing law in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Omer T. Kaytor is practicing law in Hagerstown,
Maryland.

19i2

Cuarctes T. Hopkins gives his address as Trust §
Company of Georgia Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

Joun Hearn, who is a plantation owner and in the ~
automobile business, writes that he had a hard time with ~
his plantation near Port Gibson, Mississippi, last spring
on account of continued rain, and had to plant his crops
several times.

OrHo SHUFORD is on the staff of James A. Matthews q
& Company, Accountants and Auditors, Memphis, Ten- |
nessee. Their offices are on the tenth floor of the Man-
hattan Bank Building.

D. N. Mou er is President of the Charleston Nation-
al Bank, Charleston, West Virginia.

C. R. DAawLey farms in West Virginia in the Summer ¥
—Greenbottom Homestead. Farm—and spends his win- —
ters in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

RussecL B. Winer whose offices are located in the 7
National Bank of Commerce Building at San Antonio, |
Texas, is not only a good lawyer but is an enthusiastic —
and loyal alumnus of Washington and Lee. |

WaynE Evy withdrew from the firm of Leahy, ]
Walther, Hecker & Ely on the first of last April, and ~
opened offices on the tenth floor of the Commerce Build- —
ing, 418 Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

1913

Dr. Herman P. Davipson and his family visited Dr. ~
Davidson’s mother in Lexington during the summer. He
is an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist in Chicago, and 1
is always interested and cooperative in alumni affairs.

EDWARD S. DELAPLAINE is Judge of the Court of Ap- '
peals of the State of Maryland. He is the author of a :
number of important biographical books. |

GrorcE West Dreue is Pastor of the First Presby- |
terian Church, Corpus Christi, Texas, with a member- —
ship of 1,200 in a fast growing city. 4

BENJAMIN F. Fiery is a member of the firm of §
Baker, Hostetler & Patterson, Union Commerce Build- —
ing, Cleveland, Ohio.

Puitip P. Gipson is practicing law in Huntington,
West Virginia, in the firm of Marcum & Gibson, First
Huntington National Bank Building.

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1914

_Q. Prenviss lives in the Rio Grande Valley, at San
Benito, ‘Texas. He has a wife and three children. He
practices law in San Benito.

J. E. Waytanp is pastor of an old Presbyterian
church in Malden, West Virginia, that once had as its
pastor, Dr. William Henry Ruffner, ex-president of

Washington and Lee.

Ray SmMirrH is in the real estate business and presi-
dent of the Hot Springs Real Estate Board. His address

Cuester C. CHampers is Judge of the Seventh Judi-
cial Circuit for Logan County, West Virginia, which
office he has held since July 31, 1937. Prior to that time,
he had engaged in general practice of law since his gradu-
ation except for 20 months in the military service during

the World War.

WitiiaMm E,. Crank is Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Louisa County and engaged in general practice at Louisa,
Virginia.

Leon W. Harris is engaged in general practice at

 

‘+s 909 Central Avenue, Hot Springs, Arkansas. He has Bleckley Building, Anderson, South Carolina, and sev-
three children, two boys 16 and 14, anda Vig eral years ago was fee for Was,
girl, 12. yee G1 Senator from South Carolina. Has a son

b C. Boor cae Or eonaeens a € 17, graduating from Anderson ee
Japan, living in Ichijodori, Marcecch “wee A School who expects to enter Washington

§
&
oe,

"y
re
ua

N\
ay
Y

Nishi, Kyoto City, Japan. His _ son, -
George, is a freshman at Washington and <4 ff
Lee this year. ae

y

ih

Bitt Lovins is engaged in the gen-

 

: < VWOhigs
eral practice of law at Huntington, West Mays
—. ih \
Virginia, is president of a bank, and is " i 4 |
; ; + ba 5 ee
interested in military affairs. He holds a _= 2== cam

——_

commission as Ljieutenant-Colonel. He
has been married for the past fifteen
years and has one son. =e

Harry MILLER is practicing law in Hinton, West
Virginia.
1915
Mapison P. Cok is working for the Federal Reserve
Board and prides himself that their new building is one

of the best equipped in the city. His address is 1735 New
Hampshire Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Dr. Ricuarp W. FowLxkEs, new president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., has offices in the Pro-
fessional Building, Richmond, Virginia.

CHARLES ‘T. LILE gives no news of himself. His ad-
dress is still 1210 South Negley Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Howarp Stuck is the owner and operator of the
Piggly Wiggly Jonesboro Company, Jonesboro, Arkansas.

FRANK J. BECKWITH is engaged in general practice
of law at Charles Town, West Virginia.

ArtTHUR M. BirDSALL is engaged in general practice
ot law at 740 Tenth Avenue, Belmar, New Jersey.

Joun Cattoway Brown, Trial Justice for Bedford
County, is located at Bedford, Virginia.

> —_

c = >=
SS
=; =
acca Sill

y fi us

 
     
  
 
 
  
       
 

and Lee this fall. Like lis father, he is
6 feet 5 inches tall, weighs 180 pounds
and is a good athlete.

          

 

of ee 1916
A Pr’ D. EasLEY WAGGONER is Vice-Presi-
= a dent and Manager of the United Fidelity
m= = : Life Insurance Company, Dallas, Texas.
= i yee He says:

“One of the most interesting things
that we have been doing, during the past several weeks,
was to review the colored moving pictures which we took
late last summer in England, France, Germany, Norway,
Sweden and Denmark.

“The pictures taken in Norway, Sweden and Denmark
have been of particular interest, since they have afforded
our friends an unusual opportunity to view the exact
scenes where the sea battles took place. Also, a picture of
three German pocket battleships, anchored in the harbor
of Balholm, Denmark, has aroused a lot of interest, par-
ticularly since one of them was the Graf Spee.”

Horner FIsHEr is a member of the law firm of Coe,
Fisher & Hamner, Harvey Building, West Palm Beach,
Florida.

BatTLE BAGLEy writes from Fayetteville, Tennessee,
that he has a daughter in Mary Baldwin; and four others
at home, three sons and one daughter.

Bos Curtis is treasurer of the ‘Times-World Cor-
poration, publishers of The Roanoke Times and The
Roanoke World-News. His home address is 1201 Allen-
dale, Prospect Hills, Roanoke, Virginia.

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

PARKER BUHRMAN wrote in May from Basel, Swit-
zerland, where he was serving in the United States For-
elgen Service.

1917

Bop GarRDNER is with the A. M. Byers Company,
Steel Products, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

MARION SANDERS engineered a most successful alum-
ni picnic in Hungry Mother Park this summer. He and
his wife spent some time in Lexington during the spring.
His home is in Wytheville, Virginia.

BiL_t BurtNner 1s still with the Department of Justice,
Washington, D. C.

Marion D. Witiiamson is handling Foreign and
Domestic Veneers, Cockeysville, Maryland.

Harry CAMPBELL 1s practicing law in the Security
Building, Charleston, West Virginia. His firm is Blue,
Dayton & Campbell.

C. R. Hite is president of the Merchants & Miners
Bank, Oak Hill, West Virginia.

1918

ALEX $:. WATKINS is President of the. Carolina
Lumber and Building Supply Association of Charlotte,
North Carolina. He lives in Henderson, North Carolina.

Puit HANGER is in the insurance business in Staun-
ton, Virginia. He is still a bachelor.

Futton HocE is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liamson, Hoge & Judson, Title Insurance Building, Los
Angeles, California.

Joun McCuorp is a member of the law firm of Calfee -

& Fogg, 308 Euclid Avenue Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

1919

Joun Wirt 1s still located in the Peoples National
Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Dovuctas LECKIE is with the Leckie Coal Company of
Columbus, Ohio, as one of the directors. He has a son
fourteen years old who 1s quite a football player. His let-
ter was written in May and he said the company ex-
pected to open a branch office in Richmond, Virginia,
within a month and that he would be in charge of it. He
has not given us his new address.

Dr. Gites $. TEerry is in the general practice of
medicine, Fiton Hall Apartment, Scarsdale, New York.
He has a wife, a son seven, and a daughter three.

1920

C. D. McCass is President of the Golden Petroleum
Company, an independent oil company that has produc-
tion and does drilling in West ‘Texas. His address is
Morris Building, Abilene, Texas.

Harry Burns is still in the bachelor class—at present
working harder on Nylon (Dupont yarn) than on any-
thing else. His address is 108 So. Broad Street, Com-
merce, Georgia. :

BiLtL PARKER is practicing law in Miami, Florida,
with offices in the Ingraham Building.

H. $. Powe t 1s still living in Wachapreague, Vir-
einia. He gives no news of himself.

Levin W. Nock is Principal of the Bloxom High
School, Bloxom, Virginia.

R... We -RussEL_L has been. elected. Parish Superam
tendent of Education of Tangipahoa Parish, and is lo-
cated at Amite, Louisiana.

Martin W. Simmons is a successful tobacconist in ¥
Springfield, ‘Tennessee. |

BERKELEY Cox, in addition to his work with the §
Aetna Life Insurance Company, has been appointed
chairman of the Hartford Housing Authority, which has —
charge of slum clearance and low cost housing projects. —
He is also a Trustee of the Hartford College of Insury q
ance, which was chartered last year by the Connecticut j
Legislature as a non-profit educational institution. He
and his family were in Lexington during the summer. ]

1921
Dan BLaAIN is continuing his work in the practice of —
psychiatry, chiefly in New York City, but also in and
around Greenwich and New Camden, Connecticut, where —
his home is. ‘

“BitL” Ruswvon is President of the Protective Life %
Insurance Company, Birmingham, Alabama.

NosieE B. Henprrx has changed his address to 2815
10th Ave., S., Birmingham, Alabama.

JouNn BELL is a member of the law firm of Knight & |
‘Thompson, ‘Tampa, Florida. |

D. BoonE Dawson 1s mayor of the city of Charleston,

. West Virginia.

1922

R. E. (“Dick”) SHERRILL is teaching petroleum ge-j
ology, and geologic field work during the summer, and at- ©

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ee

rending conventions. He is head of the Department of Oil
and Gas Production, at the University of Pittsburgh
School of Engineering School of Mines. He announces
the birth of a son, Richard Ellis the Fourth.

Louts S. Jor is practicing law in Jacksonville, Flor-
‘da, with offices in the Graham Building. He says he has
one wife, one son, and one dog named “Ferdinand.”

Huston St. Crarr is with the Virginia Smokeless
Coal Company, Tazewell, Virginia.

L. Waters Mitsourne is General Manager of the
Monumental Radio Company, WCAO, “ Maryland’s Old-
ect’ Radio Station, = S11 W.. Lanvale
Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

A. J. LuBLINER has practiced law in
Bluefield, West Virginia, continuously
since leaving school.

T. K. Fountain has moved from
Raleigh, North Carolina, to Greenville,
North Carolina, where he is practicing
law and farming on the side. In Novem-
ber, 1936, he was married to Dora

   

  
  
 

Bos Carr writes from Jasper, Alabama, that he has
no special news, except that within a few years he and
little Bob will put on a “father and son” act at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Cy Hatt is practicing law in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Kanawha Valley Building.

At McCarruy has been in business with his brother
in Houston, Texas, but is now back in the practice of
law with the firm of Loftin, Calkins, Anderson & Scott,
Ingraham Building, Miami, Florida. Associated with him
in this firm are three Washington and Lee alumni, PAUL

WW:
Ns

Scorr, GEorGE CLARK and JUDGE SCOTT
M. Lorin.

1924

BARRETT SHELTON Is in the newspaper
business with his father in Decatur, Ala-
bama. They publish the Decatur Daily.

Jack Tomas is now the minister of
Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in
eat See eal Richmond, Virginia. His class is all
, liStiea ~ proud and pleased with the fact that he
ee has been made a member of the Board

BE ae

 
  
  

SSS

 

 

Howell Jones of San Angelo, Texas. ot it f the Univers:
s - =a SS eames ot A rustees Ol the: University.
They have a son Theodore King Foun- = Saag Fe a x

tain, Jr., who is growing up to be a fine
tackle for Washington and Lee in 1954 or 1955.

1923
F. L. Sarrss, lives at 1706 McClung St., Charleston,
West Virginia. He married Katherine Backus and they
have three girls, 7, 4, and 1. He is with the Belle Alkali
Company at Belle, West Virginia, about eleven miles
from Charleston.

LypELL PgcK is now the State Fire Marshall of the
State of California and is located at 406 Montgomery
Street, San Francisco, California. The Governor has re-
cently appointed him as Secretary of the Bureau of
Reclamation, which is the constituted body in that state
having to do with flood control. S. A. Honaxer, 1912,
and Morcan Keaton, 1915, are also members of the
same Board.

Grorce T. (“Doc”) Horsroox is still in Hartford
where he has been since 1925. He is in charge of the
Bond Claim Department of the Century Indemnity Com-
pany, with the title of Attorney. He handles or super-
Vises, through the department, all claims under fidelity
and surety bonds, forgery, policies, etc. He lives in
Wethersfield, which joins Hartford on the south. He has
three children, two girls and a boy.

 

aS
\y Ka = pts
i il Iw!

Water H.’ Scorris 4d member et
the Virginia House of Delegates. His home is in Roan-
oke, Virginia.

NorF Leet TURNER reports that he visited the campus
this spring for the first time since leaving school and was
well pleased with the improvements and general appear-
ance of his Alma Mater. He is now executive Vice-Presi-
dent of the First National Bank of Memphis, with which
he has been associated ever since leaving school. He is
married and:has a boy,.11, anda girl, 9.

GEORGE SPRAGINS has wandered a long way from his
home town of Hope, Arkansas, to become manager of the
Baldwin Avenue Branch of the Bank of America N. T.
S: Ac, Arcadia: California: He as married: and: has: a
daupgnter, Floanc a son; 3.

OGDEN SHROPSHIRE went into the investment securi-
ties business for himself about a year ago and has had a
successful year. He has a boy and girl.

Oris Howe, 1924 class agent, is a cotton farmer at
Wabash, Arkansas. However, he is mighty proud of a
wife and two fine boys, aged 10 and 6.

CHARLES S. STONE is one person who can understand
the tobacco auctioneer, as he buys tobacco for the R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. He is also Vice-President and

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Manager of the Stoneville Grocery Company of Stone-
ville, North Carolina. He also finds time to be a director
of the bank and president of Stoneville Theatre, Inc. He
is still unmarried.

Fred WuHiTE is still in Petersburg, Virginia, where
he is Secretary-Treasurer of the Union Finance & Small
Loan Corp. He says he still practices law to some extent,
however.

B. L. MALong, JR., is practicing law in St. Petersburg,
Florida, with offices in the First Federal Building. He is
married and has three sons.

1925

Bos GoopricH has been with the Franklin Limestone
Company of Nashville, Tennessee, since 1928. He says he
is still unmarried and hasn’t made a million dollars.

Tom Harmon is practicing law with the firm of Jones,
Day, Cockley & Reavis, 1759 Union Commerce Building,
Cleveland, Ohio, where he has been since August, 1928.
He married Miss Gertrude Milde of Cleveland, a gradu-
ate of Wellesley College. Their children are Nan, aged
6 and Peter, aged 4.

CHARLES S. HEILic lives in Salisbury, North Caro-
lina. He is running a mattress business which has been in
his family for thirty-five years.

1926

Dr. CHarLes W. Lowry is teaching in the Virginia
Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Virginia. He was
abroad last summer as a Leader at the Amsterdam World
Conference of Christian Youth, and traveled extensively
in Germany in August on a personal exploration tour. He
was attending the Annual Continuation Committee Meet-
ing of the Faith and Order Conference in Switzerland
when the Russo-German pact was signed.

C. CartER LEE is practicing Law in Rocky Mount,
Virginia.

Burke WittiaMson gives his address as 220 East
Pearson Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Epwin A. Morrts gives his address as 514 Woodland
Drive, Greensboro, North Carolina.

Ratpo MasinvTEr is practicing law at 76 Beaver
Street, New York.

Wan. Hitt Brown, Manassas, Virginia, formerly
Trial Justice, now Commonwealth’s Attorney, married

es 4

and has one son three years old in June. His name is |
William Hill Brown, III. j

HARL VALENTINE is still practicing law in Lexington,
Virginia. i
1927 4

Witiiam FE. (“SteAm’’) Gace gives his address as.
W. A. Gage & Company, Cotton Factors, 711 Falls Build-
ing, Memphis, Tennessee.

GEorGCE FE. Burks is Vice-President and Treasurer of
the newly-formed firm of Hummel-Burks Realty Com-
pany, Washington Building, Louisville, Kentucky. His
daughter—Elizabeth Hereford Burks—was born Febru-
ary 7, 1940. 1

GEORGE WILLIAM SUMMERSON is Manager of the
Hotel General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia-’Tennessee.

1928

W. D. DicKERSON is a member of the law firm of
Kelley & Dickerson, Douglas, Georgia. j

Joun Wittiam Atperson, Jr., is President of the
Fussell-Graham-Alderson Company, General Merchan-_
dise-Cotton Buyers, Forrest City, Arkansas. ;

Tom Torrey is president of the Lynchburg Alumni |
Association. He is an active and enthusiastic alumnus. His_
offices are in the Krise Building. |

T. B. Bryant, Jr., is practicing law at Orangeburg,
South Carolina. He has a son two and a half years old
who says he is going to Washington and Lee. j

Irvin W. CuBINE Is practicing law in Martinsville,
Virginia. He says: “Of the members of the bar, by far
the majority are Washington and Lee men, and we fre- j
quently rehash Washington and Lee days beginning with 4
about 1896.” 1

1929 .

FRANK McCLUER, JR., is practicing law in Aberdeen,
Mississippi. 1

Lewis F. Powk tt, Jr., is a member of the firm of '
Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay & Moore, Attorneys-—
at-Law, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia. ‘

L. C. SPENGLER, JR., is practicing medicine in Roang
oke, Virginia. He has been married six years, has two
children, a boy and a girl. They moved into a new home ]
in October, 1939. q

W. A. MacDonoucu is still with the Burr, Patterson9
& Auld Company, Detroit, Michigan, as Sales Manager —
and Vice-President—having been with this organization —

[ 28 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

s—__"

ten years. He says his offices are located across the park
from the Michigan Central Terminal in Detroit, and he
will be glad to entertain any wandering alumni when-

ever they can arrange to visit Detroit.

Joun EF. (Buck) Bairy, was transferred from Dal-

las to Nashville, in January, 1940, as General Agent for
the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company.

1930

Joun Lyncu is still located in the McGuire Clinic,
St, Lukes Hospital, Richmond. He wrote that there was
an excellent Richmond Chapter meeting
of the Alumni at which Dr. Gaines, Gov-
ernor Price, and Senator Wickham spoke.

Puito LinpskEy for the past four years
has been operating a retail lumber busi- ,.im
ness in Mobile, Alabama. He is living with Re Wa
his wife and seventeen months old baby nae
girl in Mobile.
eee

ie |] i

BEN Raw tins, JR., is a General At- ae
torney for the United States Steel Corpo- :
ration, 436 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh, ae

SELDEN HuMpHREYS is with the Selmar Soap Com-
pany in Memphis, Tennessee.

F. L. SHIPMAN is a member of the law firm of Ship-
man & Shipman, Peoples Building & Savings Building,
Troy, Ohio.

19317

FRANK Mtvron Smrru, who shot up into the heights
a few years ago as manager of station WI,W in Cincin-
nati, then as advertising manager of the Gruen Watch
Company, is maintaining the pace as one of the principal
executives in T'rans-American Television and Broadcast-
ing Corporation, with offices on Fifth Avenue in New

York City. He is married, and has a daughter and a baby
son.

Dr. Leonarp C. Bortanp has moved his dental of-
fices from Chicago to Oak Park, Illinois.

ELBert Hat has been a partner in the Cox-Hunter-
Hall Insurance Agency, Abilene, Texas, since 1933. He
says Abilene is a regular hotbed of Washington and Lee

alumni.
ALEX VeEEcH is doing a splendid job as Superin-
tendent of Buildings and Grounds at Washington and Lee.

Dr. W. F. Wittams is practicing medicine in Ash-
land, Kentucky.

   
     

te, \

poe

JAMES S. PoLLtax, (when in school James Stein-
heimer) is with R.K.O., Radio Pictures, Inc., 780 Gower
Street, Los Angeles, California.

KEMPER JENNINGS has given up teaching and 1s now
associated with the McMillan Company, Publishers. He
still lives in DeFuniak Springs, Florida, but travels for
the purpose of placing textbooks in schools.

Bitty Hoyt is continuing his post-graduate studies
at Jonns Hopkins. He received his Ph.D. in June, writing

go his thesis on “Col. William Fleming on

the Virginia Frontier, 1755-’83.”

LAWRENCE Roose, now a full-fledged
M. D., wrote from Rockland State Hos-
pital, Arangeburg, New York, last April.

R. O. ParMELEE is Manager of the
Hotel Governor Cabell, Huntington, West
Virginia. He is married and has a son
-* born last November.

193 5

Lorinc M. Garrison has recently purchased The
Easley Progress, a newspaper in his home town of Fasley,
South Carolina. He is very much pleased with his change
of occupation.

   

RuCKER Ry.anp asks that his address be changed to
2338 Monument Avenue, Richmond, Virginia. He gives
no news of himself.

MarsHati_ Nuckots, Jr., reports the addition to his
family last November of another son. This makes two
prospective Washington and Lee students, one for the
Class of 1958 and the other for the Class of 1960, He is
practicing law with the firm of Covington, Burling,
Rublee, Acheson & Shorb, Union Trust Building, Wash-
ington, D. C.

Cart Vickers is Prosecuting Attorney for Fayette
County, West Virginia. He and his family, a wife and
two children, have just moved into a ‘new home in Fay-
etteville. He has been renominated, without opposition,
for the position he now holds, the election to take place
this fall.

BILL STONE is practicing law in Martinsville, Virginia.

R. T. (“Dick”) Epwarps is Assistant Common-
wealth’s Attorney of the City of Roanoke, Virginia. He
was married on June 15 to Miss Augusta Saul of Salem,
Virginia. He is practicing law with John Copenhaver.

[ 29 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ALLEN SyYMONDs is married and settled in his apart-
ment in Evanston, Illinois. His address is 600 Sheridan
Road, Evanston, Illinois.

Homer Ray is still with the Georgia Peanut Com-
pany, Moultrie, Georgia.

BERNARD B. Davis is practicing law in Shelbyville,
Kentucky, with offices in the Bank of Shelbyville Build-
ing.

1934

DarBy Berts is Rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church, Kingsport, Tennessee, having recently resigned
jis position as Curate of the Church of the Ascension in
St. Louis, Missouri.

Henry ALLEN, JR.,
dustrial Savings & Loan Company, of Beckley, West Vir-
ginia. He has passed the West Virginia State bar exam-
ination but has not hung out his shingle as an attorney.

is Secretary of the Beckley, In-

G. A. ForEHAND is in the Railway Postal Service and
likes his job. He is married and has two children. His
home is at 1133 Beale Street, Rocky Mount, Virginia.

1935

ANDERSON BROWNE is part owner and publisher of
the Gilroy Publishing Company, Gilroy, California. They
publish the Gilroy Evening Dispatch, The Gilroy Advo-
cate and The Gilroy Shopping Guide.

Gus Morcan is in the Real Estate Business with of-
fices in the Falls Building, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

Jrm Woops, two weeks after graduation, started work
for the Pennsylvania Glass Sand Corporation. He is now
with the Lewiston, Pennsylvania, office. He says “Life is
interesting, business is good, and everything is going well
with me.”” On June 16, 1937, he was married to Jane 5S.
Parker of Reedsville, Pennsylvania. They have a son born

February 26, 1940.

FERDINAND A. HAUSLEIN graduated from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania in 1936 and received his master’s
degree in 1937. He was married to Elvira FE. Taylor in
September, 1935. He has been teaching in the Hershey
High School, Hershey, Pennsylvania, since that time. His
address is 236 North Chestnut St., Palmyra, Pennsyl-
vania.

W. W. FowLkEs is practicing law in San Antonio,
Texas, with offices in the South Texas Bank Building.

BiLtLy WILSON is a member of the law firm of Wilson
and Wilson, Owensboro, Kentucky.

[ 30 |

1936

EpwarpD L&E JEAN 1s in the life insurance business,
He is married, and his address is 1113%4 Dinwiddie
Street, Portsmouth, Virginia.

   
   
 
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
   

BILL JOHNSON is practicing law in Cleveland, Ten-
nessee. His address is 2806 Church Street. 7

Martin Kaptan has finished his junior year at the
Louisville Medical School. His younger brother will enter
here in 1941, making the fifth member of the family of
Kaplan to do his college work at Washington and Lee. —

Howarp E,. MEtTon is Secretary-Treasurer of How-
ard E. Melton, Inc., Distributors, of 1017 N. Harvey,
Oklahoma City, Ginahome 1

James L. (“Sonny”) Price, Jr., will- complete his
final year at Union Theological Seminary next session,
He will serve as president of the student body.

1937

LAMAR Rau is studying medicine at the University of
South Carolina.

Rosert, M.: .PreK. is. selling four tor the .
Brothers, Wallace Building, Little Rock, Arkansas. |

WitiiAm H. Rosrnson is practicing law in Monon-
gahela, Pennsylvania, and when he wrote his Class Agent
in April, was a candidate for the state legislature.

Jimmy Bratock had been practicing law for a year
in Jackson, Mississippi, last May. He is a director of the
local Junior Chamber of Commerce, and on ‘Thursday
(6:05 to 6:15 p. m. on WSLI) he handles a weekly ra
program. He is also president of the local association of
Phi Beta Kappa. 1

L930

WitirAm H. DANIEL is one of the managers of the
Red Cross Department Store in Miami, Florida. He was
manager of the Hotel Seminole last year, but he expects
eventually to go into the Real Estate business. His ad
dress is New Hotel Seminole, Miami, Florida.

FRANK JONES has joined the ranks of the married
men. His address is 24 W. Lochlane, Apt. 6, Richmond

Virginia.
Sam McCuEsNEy, Jr., is with the Gardner Adver
tising Company, Mart Building, St. Louis, Missouri. 4
James Henry McCuurg is associated with the fir 1

of Artmann, McClure, Hadden and Company, Manage
ment Engineers, at Bend, Oregon. He has passed his

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—_—_—_"”™ ~~

pilot’ s tests, has been flying for a year, and is most en-

thusiastic about it.

GrorcE S. Kemp lives at 3501 Seminary poenue,

Richmond, Virginia.

1939

Hucu Avery is active in the affairs of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce of Buffalo, New York. His ad-
dress is 215 Birkshire Avenue, Buffalo, New York.

Epwarp F. Burrows was doing work toward his
M.A. degree at Duke when his letter was written in
April. He expected to write his thesis during

vial
he Mil)

the summer. at NY

  
  
  
   

ALLEN Craic is employed as a Chemist
with Durkee Famous Foods in Elmhurst,
New York. His address is 8716 62nd Road,
Rego Park, New York.

ZALMON H. GarFIELD has completed a™{\'
year of graduate work at Northwestern Unt-
versity and received a master’s degree.

Davip H. MILLeEr ts teaching in the Val-
ley High School, Hot Springs, Virginia.

Joun H. Warp, III, was married to Jean
Macpherson of St. Clair, Michigan, on March
30, 1940. His address is 2840 Peachtree Road, Atlanta,

ae
Georgia.

Bos HvuTcHEson is practicing law in Emporia, Vir-
einia.

CASSELL ADAMSON is practicing law with the firm of
Wallerstein, Goode & Evans, 900 ‘Travelers Building,
Richmond, Virginia.

A. Nert Coie is Graduate Assistant in Romance
Languages at the University of Maryland.

1940

JACKSON GROVER AKIN, JR., is in the Harvard Law
100l. At Harvard he is a member of the Root Law
Club; Lincoln’s Inn Society and the Southern Club. His
address is 7 Divinity Hall, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Scl

Lro F. Rernartz, JRr., is attending the Graduate
School of the Wharton School of Finance and Com-
merce. His school address is 3743 Walnut Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

CHar.es Terry BLANDForD is with the DuPont de
Nemours Company on the construction of the new gov-
frnment powder plant at Charlestown, Indiana. He is

= rea =~

 

his Master’

still receiving his mail at his home address, 1967 Trevilian
Way, Louisville, Kentucky.

Guy CoLEMAN Oswa tT is attending Tulane Univer-
sity Medical School. His address there is 5018 St. Charles
Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

ALTON Davip FARBER is with the Sales Department
of the Pilot Radio Corporation. His home address is 1051
Fast 32nd Street, Brooklyn, New York.

CHARLES Epwarp BLaAINn married Charlotte Dunn of
Montclair, New Jersey, graduate of Sweet Briar, on Sep-
tember 21, 1940. His address 1s 211 Yankee

ie Road, Middletown, Ohio. He is with the
2 American Rolling Mills, Middletown, Ohio.

ANDREW DoucLas JAMIESON, JR., is do-
ing a year’s work in the Columbia Graduate
, school of Journalism for an M. 8. degree.
- 7 His temporary address is 630 Furnald Hall,

4i ie

ch; Columbia University, New York City.

BX

SAMUEL EDWARD TYLER is in the English
Department, Johns Hopkins University. His
~“S= address is 1724 Bolton Street, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Wititram McCrain Reap is working on
s degree at the University of Pennsylvania. He
is still at his home address, 5528 Thomas Avenue, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

GEorGE Mason Grasty is in the Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences of Duke University, working toward
the degree of Master of Arts in German. His address
there is Box 51/0, Duke Station, Burham,.,.Narth Caro-
lina.

ARTHUR RENO Porver is an Instructor in the Whar-
ton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
His home address is still 337 Riverview Avenue, Drexel
Hill, Pennsylvania.

PauL G. Morrison, Jr., is studying this year in the
Graduate School of the University of Chicago.

HaMiILton Hervz 1s at present working in the adver-
tising department of one of the Washington department
stores. His address is 3/00 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

Harry BurRNETY StoppART has just returned from a
month’s cruise with the Naval Reserve. In March he will
enter the Naval Training School at Northwestern Uni-
versity as a midshipman. His present address is 120
Harrison Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

[ 31 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Louis McCLettanp WALKER is attending North-
western Medical School, Chicago, Illinois. His address
there is Abbott Hall, Chicago, Ilinois.

ALFRED CHARLES KRIEGER, JR., is attending the Uni-
versity of Louisville Law School. His address is 2319
Woodford Place, Louisville, Kentucky.

Frep Davip SHELLABARGER is with the Lipscomb
Grain & Seed Co., Springfield, Mo. His address is 718 FE.
Walnut Street, Springfield, Missour1.

ALFRED RonALD THOMPSON is teaching and coaching
at Valley High School, Hot Springs, Virginia.

GILBERT GARDNER 1s with Time, Inc., Radio City, New
York. His residence is 203 West 9th Street, Plainfield,
New Jersey.

Rozert W. Powers is doing graduate work at the
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania. His address there is Box 362.

GrorcE WHITE CHANEY, JR., is with the Group De-
partment, Shenandoah Life, Roanoke, Virginia. His ad-
dress is 339 Richelieu Ave., Roanoke, Virginia.

FREDERICK AUGUSTUS FEDDEMAN is attending Jeffer-
son Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His ad-
dress is 717 Kerlin Street, Chester, Pennsylvania.

 

The “Late” Only Dold

(Continued from page 13)

dozens of different places since the popularity of Dold’s
began to weaken, for college students are unusually fickle
in their patronage of stores. Most of the other places,
once popular, disappeared entirely; but Mr. Dold, with
that rugged individualism of his, kept right on going,
whether he was approached for an attractive sale of his
property, or by a town order to condemn his building as
unsafe.

He was seventy-three years old when he died, but he
looked much younger as he stood out there on Main
Street in his old-fashioned apron and collar. By present
and future students he will probably not be remembered ;
yet the old-timers will never forget H. O. Dold because
he was one of those positive personalities, seemingly fewer
than they used to be, who cannot be forgotten by those
who knew them.

His newly-repaired shop will undoubtedly become a
filling station, such being the way of the present world.
Student taste, meanwhile, will fluctuate from one mer-
chant to another; and then perhaps something will super-

sede the filling stations and the hot-dogs. And perhaps j
students will return to Hot Vienna Sausages! }

But the new students will never know the personality
of H. O. Dold—which is a pity. —G. S.J

 

The Library and Its Growth
(Continued from page 3) :

Ancell, widow of a distinguished alumnus who had served /
for forty years as a missionary in China, sent her hus-
band’s collection, about 600 volumes, on Virginia history i

and genealogy. ee

A year later we received 1000 volumes from the estate :

of Judge John Barton Payne, and the indispensable collec- {

tion of works on art, given by the Carnegie Corporation, ;
* Ok

Throughout the century and a half indicated in this
hurried sketch there have been hosts of other donors, far |
too many of them even to mention in these fragmentary {
notes; but their generosities have been not only apprect-
ated at the time but recognized as sources of the endur-
ing cultural strength of this institution. 1

eee

And, of course, an article of brave dimensions could |
be written on the friends who made possible the new laws
library, which is not taken into account within these notes J
and there are other friends who have helped our depart-_
mental libraries, such as those of the commerce group and -
the chemistry department.  *

oe Oe

When the late Cyrus H. McCormick of Chicago died,
Washington and Lee received, from his estate and from aq
division, made by his sons, of a further fund for benevo-
lences, gifts valued at $120,000. This money, together |
with substantial additions from other sources, was used to
build an adequate home for our books, an adequate work-
shop for their proper use. This reconstructed library is a
memorial to Cyrus Hall McCormick, the inventor, who in
his last years was our trustee and our great friend. '

ee j
May it be ever thus, that as in the past the library will”
have a central importance in the thinking of those who

determine institutional policy, will have large place in the
thinking of those who love the school and bring it helpful,

eifts.
Devic tg fanen,

President

[ 32 |

 

 

 

 

