The
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

AUGUST, 1950

Ye
¥

oor e
~ 2-2
Se

Ee
-~

SA
®,

—

~~
o*.

,

WP 1

7

>

 

 

Class Agents for 1950

1900 —Alumni Office

1901 —Alumni Office

1902 —Dr. W. T. Ellis, 1115 W. Lindley Avenue, Philadel-
phia 41, Pennsylvania

1903 —William J. Turner, 70 Pine St. New York 5, N. Y.

1904 —S. W. Schaefer, M.D., 178 East 70th St. New York
21, New York

1905 —D. A. Bradham, Box 86, Warren, Arkansas

1906 —Dr. F. R. Crawford, Box 208, Farmville, Virginia

1907 —Dr. Frank McCutchan, Box 1247, Salisbury N.C.

1908-A—Abram D. Somerville, P.O. Box 387, Cleveland, Miss.

1908-L—Roscoe B. Stephenson, Covington, Virginia

1909-A—Sorsby Jemison, care of The Young & Vann Supply
Co., P.O. Drawer 2532, Birmingham 2, Ala.

1909-L—Melvin E. Cruser, 511 Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk 10, Virginia

1910-A—John H. Tucker, Jr., 901 Commercial
Shreveport 24, Louisiana

1910-L—Walter M. Hood, Alabama Power Company, Birm-
ingham, Alabama

1911-A—Michael Brown, Edgemere Drive, P.O. Box 237,
Matawan, New Jersey

1911-L—Roger M. Winborne, 209 Highland Avenue, Lenoir,
North Carolina

1912-A—Tom Glasgow, Box 1997, Charlotte 1, North Carolina
1912-L—Robert C. Dow, 426 North Vassar, Wichita, Kansas

1913-A—Fred W. McWane, Lynchburg Foundry Company,
Lynchburg, Virginia

1913-L—Junius W. Pulley, Courtland, Virginia

1914-A—Morris L. Masinter, 803-4 State and City Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

1914-L—Junius L. Powell, 90 John Street, New York 7, N. Y.

1915-A—Leslie S. Anderson, Box 62, Mayfield, Kentucky

1915-L—Loring C. Kackley, P.O. Box 66, Berryville, Virginia

1916-A—Horner C. Fisher, 1101 Harvey Building, West Palm
Beach, Florida

1916-L—Earl B. Rose, 537 North Broadway, Lexington 12,
Kentucky

1917-A—A. G. Paxton, Box 263, care of Paxton Company,
Greenville, Mississippi

1917-L—Gus Ottenheimer, P.O. Box 2061, Little Rock, Ark.
1918 —Jas. J. Izard, Box 2571, Roanoke, Virginia

1919 —J. R. Fain, City National Bank, P.O. Box 2114, Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina

1920-A—W. F. Parker, 515 Ingraham Building, Miami 32, Fla.
1920-L—Fadjo Cravens, 119 North 15th St., Fort Smith, Ark.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 305 Pierce Bldg., St Louis 2., Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, 402 Peoples Bank Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Box 2848, Orlando, Florida

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving St., Arlington, Va.

1923-A—George Edward Harris, Atlantic Beach, Morehead
City, North Carolina

1923-L—John J. Hudak, 133 Chestnut Street, Garfield, N. J.
1924-A—E. D. Gibson, 217 Park Ave., East, Mansfield, Ohio
1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, Suffolk, Virginia

1925-A—J. M. Holt, Box 911, Lewisburg, West Virginia

1925-L—Clarence E. Hinkle, 412 J. P. White Building, Ros-
well, New Mexico

1926-A—George B. Wilkinson, 216 Johnston Building, Char-
lotte 2, North Carolina

1926-L—James Kay Thomas, Atlantic Greyhound Corpora-
tion, Box 2553, Charleston, West Virginia

1927-A—William M. Pope, care of National Bank and Trust
Company, Charlottesville, Virginia

Building,

  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

1927-L—Euclin D. Reeves, 89 Benevolent Street, Provid.
Rhode Island

1928-A—Wilmot L. Harris, Mail Pouch Tobacco Con
Wheeling, West Virginia

1928-L—Irvin W. Cubine, Burch Bldg., Martinsville, Virg
1929-A—George H. Goodwin, City Hall, Bastrop, Louisis

1929-L—John Bell Towill, 1014 Southern Finance Byjj,
Augusta, Georgia

1930-A—Gerard E. Grashorn, 38 South Dearborn Street, ¢
cago 3, Illinois |

1930-L—B. L. Rawlins, 436 Seventh Ave., Pittsburgh 39.

1931-A—Lloyd A. Myers, Jr., Black Diamond Trailer @
pany, Inc., Bristol, Virginia

1931-L—R. J. Thrift, Jr., Fayetteville, West Virginia

1932-A—Sherwood W. Wise, P. O. Box 426, Jackson —
Mississippi

1932-L—Henry W. MacKenzie, Jr., 110 Middle Street, Po
mouth, Virginia

1933-A—Luther F. Violett, 290 Broadway, New York 8,
1933-L—John L. Ericson, 27 West Main, New Britain,

1934-A—Holmes M. Dyer, 15 Sixth Avenue, Atlantic Hej
New Jersey

1934-L—Robert Bailey, Pineville, West Virginia

1935-A—Frederick de Rosset Strong, Pepperell Manufact
ing Co., 160 State Street, Boston 2, Massachus

1935-L—E. C. Clements, Rolling Fork, Mississippi

1936-A—I. Glenn Shively, 85 Garber Street, Chambersbu
Pennsylvania

1936-L—John M. Miller, 1424 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wa
ington 6, D.C.

1937-A—Robert E. Graham, 6 Law Range, Sumter, S. C. —

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of Goldsmith’s, Memph
Tennessee.

1938-A—Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 1857 Union Commerce Bui
ing, Cleveland 14, Ohio

1938-L—Waldo G. Miles, 725 Arlington Avenue, Bristol,

1939-A—Charles G. Gilmore, Travelers Insurance Compat
212-14 South Tryon, Charlotte, North Carolina

1939-L—Philip M. Grabill, Woodstock, Virginia

1940-A—Reid (Steve) Brodie, Jr., P.O. Box 498, Owensbe
Kentucky

1940-L—H. W. Bittenbender, Box 2911, St. Petersburg 1,

1941-A—Alvin T. Fleishman, Box 253, Anderson, S. C.

1941-L—John E. Perry, 1515 Park Building, Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania

1942-A—Robert F. Campbell, Jr., 6 Pearson Drive, Ashevi
North Carolina

1942-L—Howard W. Dobbins, 900 Travelers Building, Rie
mond, Virginia

—Joseph F. Ellis, Jr., Box 666, Friars Point Re
Clarksdale, Mississippi

“reece L. Stilwell, 25820 Tungsten Road, Euclid
io

—J. A. Philpott, Box 536, Lexington, North Caroli
1946 —Charles E. Belcher, Box 8, Bluefield, West Virgin
1947 —Brent Breedin, Jr., Daily Mail, Anderson, S. C.
1948-A—Walter B. Potter, P. O. Box 444, Hopewell, Virgi

1948-L—Joseph E. Blackburn, 709 Krise Building, Lynchbut
Virginia

1949-A—H. Glenn Chaffer, 49 Fairfield Avenue, Darien, Com
1949-L—W. H. Jolly, Box 143, Salem, Virginia

1943

1944
1945

 

——

Appalachian—Francis R. Russell, °43, Marion
Publishing Co., Marion, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

»

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, ’20, 402 Connally
Building

Baltimore—A. L. Michaux, Jr., 5701 Chinqua-
pin Parkway

Birmingham—Clifford B. Beasley, Jr., '46, 2824
Overhill Road
Boston—William R. Nutt, '43, 80 Federal St.

Charleston, West Virginia—Frank R. Bell, Jr.,
‘42. Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ’'27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—W. H. Hillier, '38, 5521 Blackstone
Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, 40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Wilton M. Garrison, '28, The Char-
lotte Observer

Cleveland—Samuel P. McChesney, Jr., ‘38, 1556
Hanna Building

Danville, Virgie". Cc. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box

yetroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—Horace W. Bittenbender,
‘40. St. Petersburg, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—A. T. Bishop, Jr., '41 Monarch
Motor Company

Lynchburg—Hugh D. Ebert, °29, P.O. Box 893

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—W. J. L. Patton, '22, National City
3ank, 55 Wall Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
'18, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—B. A. Sartor, Jr., '38 Gid-
dens-Lane Building

North Texas—Harry Rand, ‘27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, '06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, '37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., '36, Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina

Richmond—W. B. Jacobs, '29, Central National
Bank

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Harry J. Breithaupt, 36,
Investment Building

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

BARK. oho 58) Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

 

Vol. XXV AUGUST, 1950 No. 4

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pe pheheen es cl KENNETH P. LANE, 1936
Vice-President.......... Horace W. PuHIcwips, 1908
Secretary... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TPCOSIID oie keine Frank T. Breapy, 1931

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. PHIL tips, 1902
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931
GrorcE E. Burks, 1927
C. C. Moors, 1913
KENNETH P. LANE, 1936
ARCHIBALD A. SPROUL, 1937

Pau. C. Burorp, 1913

THE COVER

Alumni, parents and friends hear President Gaines deliver
the Commencement Address to Washington and Lee’s
largest graduating class

 

"16; Arthur Wood, ’24.

Back row: Jim Wamsley, ’22; Billy Maynard, ’26; Leon Harris, 15; Fred Townsend, ’20; Omer Kaylor, 11; John Young, "19

Alumni fathers of graduates not in picture: Bleakley James, ’22; A. H. Hopkins, 712; O. C. Dawkins, Jr., ’27; J. R. Tod
"19; M. W. Vicars, ’23; W. R. Cosby, ’26; Sam Silverstein,* ’17; Richard Hynson,* ’08; R. B. Davenport,* ’25. (*deceased!

Largest Class Graduated in June

The largest graduating class ever to
finish at Washington and Lee received
its diplomas at the 20lst commence-
ment on the campus Friday morning,
June 8th, from President Francis P.
Gaines. They numbered 211, swelled
by 82 who completed their courses in
February.

In an address on “Education for a
Day of Peril,’ President Gaines de-
fined the contribution of education in
times of trouble as “the capacity to
surrender private interests.”

Pleading with graduates to make
their knowledge a long perspective for
wiser understanding of current prob-
lems, Dr. Gaines read a _ quotation
which, he said, might be considered
a phrasing of the current problem.

“The poorer citizens have captured
the government and have voted the
property of the rich into the coffers
of the state for redistribution among
the voters. Politicians have strained
their ingenuity to discover the new
sources of public revenue. They have
doubled the indirect taxes, such as
customs due on imports and exports.
They have continued the extraordinary
taxes .of war time into peace times.
They have broadened perilously the
field of the income tax as well as the
property tax. One of our wisest says:
‘When I was a boy wealth was re-
garded as secure and admirable—but
now a man has to defend himself

4

Twenty-seven sons of alumni received their degrees in the Class of ’50. Eighteen of their fathers are in the picture abe
Front row (left to right): John Strickler, ’27; Tom Kirkpatrick, ’13; Ray Smith, ’14; Claiborne Gooch, ’15; S. L. Fellers, ” }
Second row: Gus Fritchie, ’19; Frank Love, ’21; Edmund Campbell, 18; Louis Joel, 22; Lamar Polk, ’15; Bruce Woodry

against being rich as if it were the
worst of crimes.’ Athletics have be-
come professionalized; young citizens
who once thronged the playground or
the gymnasium now exert themselves
vicariously by witnessing professional
exhibitions. Philosophy has struggled
to find in civic loyalty or in a natural

 

 

It won’t be long now!

   
   
  
 
  
   
     
   
   
   
  

ethic some substitute for the divine
commandments and the _ surveillance
of God.”

Whether the quotation be or be ne
an apt description of our times, DF
Gaines continued, it is actually taket
from a history of Greece, with only
change in tense. The wise man referred

 

  
 
 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN®&

[socrates but it was the Greece

oO was a . : : F a
s ahout 350 B.C. already decadent
of ; ise of the conditions described
pec? ast about ready to be over-
pe d by Philip of Macedon.

whelme ‘ ,
“education for perilous hours has

‘ly failed if it has not fortified
ute with the insight of faith,” Dr.
es added. “Cynicism and despair
Pd a sense of defeatism are the emo-
ional expressions of atheism and go
yn tO ‘nvade the moral fibres which
ie character.”

A single honorary degree went to

member of the Class of 1915. Dr.

a

Nicholson Barney Adams, now pro-
fessor of Spanish at the University of
North Carolina, was awarded the

Doctor of Letters degree for “his per-
ceptive scholarship, his genuine hu-
manism, and his gift of tongues.

For the first time the John Graham
award for constructive work in fine
arts was given, the recipient being
Bruce F. Woodruff, Jr., of Atlanta.
The award is in memory of the late
John Graham of Lexington, faculty
member who contributed so much to
the cultural life of the college and the
community.

Thomas C. Frost, Jr., of San An-
tonio, Texas, the class valedictorian,
in a brief informal address stressed the
advantages the student enjoyed at
Washington and Lee. He listed a
small student body with close in-
structor-student relationships, a cos-
mopolitan student body, the absence
of state control and direction with
complete freedom to teach, and the
unique honor system.

 

Alumni Participate

Owine to the large number of
alumni who attended the Bicentennial
Alumni Reunion last year, alumni at-

 

os ‘ing

tendance at Finals, June 7-9, was un-
usually small. No class reunions were
scheduled and no particular effort was
made to bring them back this year.

The usual Alumni Smoker was held
in the Student Union on the evening
of June 7th, and the regular meetings
of the University Board of Trustees
and the Alumni Board of Trustees on
the following morning.

Following the alumni luncheon on
the back campus at 12:45 on June 8th,
the annual general alumni meeting
was held in Washington Chapel at
2:00 p.m.

Those present were greeted by
President Francis P. Gaines, and heard
Secretary H. K. Young’s report. In
brief remarks, George Barclay, foot-
ball coach, predicted a fine team for
next year and paid special tribute to

Alumni figure at the Senior-Alumni Ball
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

pe

Alumni Luncheon

 

under the trees

Dean Frank J. Gilliam, director of ad-
missions, for his help and cooperation.
He said that Dean Gilliam did not
hesitate to state when he thought a
prospective athlete would not be able
to make the academic grade. The re-
sult was that no football players were
lost because of deficient grades in Feb-
ruary or in June, and the academic
average of the team was a little better
than the average of the student body
at large.

Two new members of the Alumni
Board of Trustees were elected, Paul
C. Buford, 713, of Roanoke, and Arch
A. Sproul, ’37, of Staunton.

The Alumni Board of “Trustees
elected Kenneth P. Lane, ’36, of Rich-
mond, as president of the association;
Horace W. Phillips, ’08, Hardeeville,
S.C., vice-president; and Frank T.
3ready, ’31, of Philadelphia, treasurer.

Two men were named as graduate
representatives to the University Ath-
letic Committee. They are Walter E.
Hoffman, ’31, of Norfolk, and Ralph
I. Daves, ’26, of Lexington.

Following the meeting many alumni
drove to Balcony Falls to see the
Albert Sidney Boat Club defeat the
Harry Lees by a boat length. An
added attraction was a_ preliminary
race between members of the faculty
and the Sigma Society, which was won
by the Sigmas. Neither crew had the
best coordination.

The makeup of the faculty crew was
R. W. Dickey, coxswain; C. E. Wil-
liams, stroke; Rowland Nelson, George
Irwin, B. B. Holder, George Foster,
Bill Guthrie, and Charles Voigt.

The reception for alumni, parents
and seniors at the home of President
and Mrs. Gaines Thursday evening
was followed by the Final Ball. The
ball figure was led by Finals President
Rody Davenport with Miss Betsy
Sumner of Honolulu, a sophomore at

(Continued on page 9)

 

 

Chow line at the Alumni Luncheon

Minutes of Alumni Meeting
June 8, 1950

I. The meeting was called to order
by the President of the Alumni Asso-
ciation, Warren E. Tilson, ’26.

II. The Alumni Secretary, H. K.
Young, read the minutes of the June
17, 1949, General Alumni meeting when
over 1,000 alumni returned for the Bi-
centennial Alumni Reunion.

III. Dr. Gaines was presented to
the group by Mr. Tilson. In his re-
marks, Dr. Gaines stated that he must
say to the alumni that “your institut-
tion has now reached a stage that
many other institutions have reached
—the leveling off after the war. With
the large increases in expenditures and
the decrease in income, your institu-
tion now needs help as it has never
needed it before. Not since 1934 have
I had as much difficulty in presenting
to the Board of Trustees a balanced
budget as in this year 1950, and the
balanced budget is exactly what we
spent last year with not more than
$1,000 for any kind of new opportunity
or new privilege.” Dr. Gaines men-
tioned some of the needs that had
been called to his attention during the
year and for which there were no
available funds. He concluded that he
did covet for all students here the ex-
cellence of quality of the small col-
lege. Of particular interest to the as-
sembled group of alumni was his an-
nouncement that a committee had been
appointed to consist of the Chairman
of the Alumni Committee of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, the Presi-
dent of the University, and the Presi-
dent of the Alumni Association. These
three men will undertake to be in close
and frequent association to make sure

6

that the purposes of the University
are always known to the alumni.

IV. Mr. Tilson called for a report
from the Nominating Committee, com-
posed of Randolph G. Whittle, ’24,
Chairman; Francis D. Crew, ’37, and
Henry P. Johnston, ’29. Mr. Whittle
presented the following slate to re-
place the outgoing Board members,
Frederick S. Johnson, ’11, and Warren
E. Tilson,’26: Archibald A. Sproul,
III, ’37, Stauton, Virginia, and Paul
C. Buford, 713, Roanoke, Virginia. It
was moved, seconded and unanimously
voted to adopt this slate.

Coaches George Barclay, Carl Wise and Dick Smith listen to some pleasant
“beefs” from Sam McChesney, ’38, and Frank Bready, ’31

  
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
      
   
    
  
  
 

V. The report of the Treasurer
not read, since it was published in
February ALUMNI MAGAZINE

VI. H. K. Young, Alumni gee
tary, presented the following report
the activities of the Association
the past year:

Report of the Alumni Secres:

This report, as most of those
by your Secretary in past years,
only cover briefly some of the activit
of your Association during the »
year. I say briefly because so mt
detail work is done in the Alym
Office that it would be very bow
to you.

It seems, for some reason or oth
in the year 49 several thousand of o
alumni decided to move on to green
pastures, in many cases becoming y
located on our files, which necessitag
many hours of work in trying to
good addresses for them. In spite ,
the exhaustive effort made recently
compiling the Alumni Directory,
had more returns for better addresse
of the February ALUMNI MAG
ZINE, which was sent to all alum
than ever before in our history
would estimate at least 400.

Many of you were present at
year’s Bicentennial Alumni Reunioy
which undoubtedly was the large
gathering of alumni on the campus
our history. Many times before
have had good numbers of alumni ¢
return but, for some reason or othe
it is hard to get them into an alum
meeting, even when they are on fh
campus. Such was not the case
year when the Gymnasium was fille
to capacity—easily 1,000 in attendance
The success of the occasion has bee
indicated by the hundreds of lette
received from alumni who were pres
ent expressing their appreciation. T
addition, most of them suggested t

 

   

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

| Alumni Reunion be held

genera : »
ery fve years, organized along simi-
ove . fei -
. lines [he Alumni Board and the
a

Universit) officials are giving the sug-
‘ection serious consideration, and I
pelieve | am safe in saying that such
, reunion will be held in 1954.

The \LUMNI MAGAZINE has
‘ssued as usual this year; how-
he February and May issues
n delayed in reaching you on
of the confusion in our Print
Shop caused by the rather serious fire
there just before the February issue
was ready to go into the mails. The
Magazine is now being sent to more
alumni than ever before in the 25 years
it has been published. In addition to all
Alumni Fund contributors, it is being
received by all alumni who contributed
to the Bicentennial Fund. Our Maga-
now numbers 4,250.

been
ever, '
have bee
accou nt

zine list

The student-alumni relations pro-
eram was carried on as usual during
the year. Both the February and June
graduating classes, with their wives,
were guests at banquets held at the
Natural Bridge Hotel. At these ban-
quets the seniors are welcomed as
alumni and thoroughly indoctrinated
as to their duties and privileges in this
connection. Every year, a few weeks
after graduation, these men receive a
letter from the Alumni Office enclosing
a questionnaire, which, when returned,
is made a part of their record here. In
addition, they are offered the services
of the Office whenever it is desired.
The ALUMNI MAGAZINE is sent
to each graduate for one year with
the compliments of the Association.

Homecoming is always a successful
and enjoyable event when the Generals

 

win the football game. This was the Kenneth P. Lane, A.B., ’36, was elected President of Washington and Lee
case last fall, when more alumni re- Alumni, Incorporated at its meeting June 8, 1950. While a student here he was
turned for the occasion than we had a member of Phi Delta Theta; Executive Committee of the Student Body; Busi-
expected, but were amply served at ness Manager of the Troubadours, Ring-tum Phi, and Calyx. He is Assistant
the pre-game luncheon held in_ the Treasurer, David M. Lea & Company, Box 1538, Richmond, Va.

_ & Student Union. The fraternities were
e most cooperative in decorating their
houses and handsome silver prizes

a were awarded by your Association. We

also helped the student body financial-

ek ly in bringing the 125-piece Charles-
. ton, West Virginia, High School Band

to the campus for the day.

   

il i

 

In spite of the great assistance rend-
ered during the Bicentennial year by
the local association, 30 of our 35
active associations held meetings dur-
ing the year at which representatives
of the University were present.

As you all know, during the past
two years the Alumni Fund was so
tied up with the Bicentennial Fund
that no definite comparison as to re-
sults could be made with former years.
This year we are on our own, and to
date the Fund has shown most satis-
factory progress, with one possible
‘<Miaietailiaieccs «iielaaal | exception. As I make this report, we
ee. at eee have received $19,340.00, which, as

Capt. (Gov) Letcher, ’88, back to camera, has the floor (Continued on page 9)
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY 7

 

el! 5 nt
a gee & wicieas. acces

 

What form! What TES What is it? The faculty- teal crew that scat
a close decision to Sigma as an added attraction at the Finals Week boat races.
The boating: Jim Anderson, coxswain; Skinny Williams, 19, stroke; Rowland

Nelson, No. 7; George Irwin,

"17, No. 6; Denver Crawford, No. 5; George

Foster, ’34, No. 4; Charlie Guthrie, ’39, No. 3; Bill Guthrie, 43, No. 2;
Carl Wise, bow.

Faculty Changes Announced

The appointment of three men to
the faculty of Washington and Lee
University and the promotion of a
quartet of incumbent teachers was an-
nounced by President Francis P.
Gaines.

Dr. Walter Elder, who is currently
engaged in advanced graduate study
at Oxford University in England, will
join the W. and L,. faculty in Septem-
ber as Assistant Professor of English.

Dr. Elder, a 1942 honor graduate of

Kenyon College in Ohio, was award
a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxforg

1948, and received his doctor

philosophy degree there. After Wartir
service with the Army Air Forces, Ff
Klder returned to Kenyon to becil
instructor in English and philosoph
He moved to Harvard University a.
graduate student in ethics and aesthe
ics in 1946, returning to the Kenyg
faculty for a year before acceptiy
the Rhodes Scholarship. .

He will become the third for
Rhodes Scholar in the English depa
ment faculty at Washington and

Joining the staff in September ”
Assistant Professor of Chemistry
be William C. Hunt, who is preseng
teaching chemistry at the Univers;
of Pennsylvania. Hunt holds a B
degree from Juniata College and”
master’s degree from Pennsylyanj
He served as a Naval Reserve office
during the war.
Gordon Page, prominent in Virgini
music circles as choral director of #
Virginia Music Festival for the pg
three years, will assume direction ¢
the Washington and Lee Glee Ch
in the fall. Page is Associate Professe
of Music at Mary Baldwin College
holding degrees from Dakota Wes]
an University and the University ¢
Virginia. q
He succeeds Caleb Cushing, of
Lynchburg, who had directed the W
and LL. singers for two seasons.
Promotions made known by Presi
dent Gaines include the advancemefr
of two members of the law schoo

 

A rare tis in wag sent the ically: out to flex 3 its muscles in Pilke first Gilden) Greater Facilty Invitational Open Golf
Tournament. Two eight-man teams, led by Cy Young and Cy Twombly, battled right down to the last putt in the one-day;
eighteen-hole affair won by the “Whites” of Captain Young. The “Whites” held only a two-stroke advantage over Captain
Twombly’s “Blues” when the sun had set over the rolling Lexington Tri-Brook course. Contestants in the back row above
are Jack Carper (sports news director), Twombly (physical education), George Foster (English), Billy Hinton (psychology);
Charlie Guthrie (religion), Rowland Nelson (English), A. R. Coleman (accounting), Young (alumni secretary), Chu
Voigt (journalism), Bill Guthrie (English), Walter Flick (psychology), Lea Booth (public relations), Jim Anderson (physi-
cal education), George Barclay (football coach), and Tom Wilson (assistant to the dean of students)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN&

 

eee

AN

fag

One of the most enjoyable events of Finals was Claude Thornhill’s
concert on the campus

faculty, Dr. Charles V. Laughlin and
Dr. Theodore A. Smedley, both of
whom were appointed to full profes-
sorships.

Dr. Edwin C. Griffith, a member of
the faculty in the School of Commerce
and Administration, was given the
rank of Professor of Economics, and
Dr. Rowland W. Nelson was advanced
in rank from Assistant Professor to
Associate Professor of English. Dr.
Nelson is also a former Rhodes
Scholar.

 

Alumni Meeting

(Continued from page 7)

compared with former years, is very
Satisfactory. However, this amount has
been received from only 992 contribu-
tors, which is just 10 per cent of the
total number of living alumni on our
files. | am sure you will be interested
to know that since 1933 approximately
5,000 alumni have at different times
contributed once or more to this Fund.
We know these men are interested in
the affairs of the University or they
would not have responded. We have
never found the answer to making
this an annual “must” for each of our
former contributors. Not only does this
Fund carry the cost of operation of
your Association, with the many in-
tangibles connected with it, but it
must grow to such proportions that it
will be of specific financial assistance
to the University. I hope that every
alumnus read Dr. Gaines’ page in the
February issue of the ALUMNI-
MAGAZINE, entitled “Opportunity
Unique,” in which he outlined the
Many needs of the University for
Which funds were not at present avail-
able, that could be made _ possible

through alumni contributions. I do

hope that between now and June 30,
the closing date of our Alumni Fund,
that many more alumni will respond
to their Class Agents’ letters. These
agents are the crux of the success of
the Fund. They are generously giving
of their time and their efforts.

This report has been much longer
than I anticipated, but before closing
there is one recommendation | should
like to make. Our By-Laws are badly
in need of revision and I feel confident
your incoming Board will authorize
the necessary revision, especially of
those articles relating to the election
of Board members. It is recommended
that a more democratic method be
established for the election of Board
members, giving every alumnus the

 

privilege of casting his ballot in this
connection.

VII. Mr. Tilson introduced _ the
football coach, Mr. George Barclay,
who gave an optimistic report on ma-
terial for the coming season.

VIII. The call for new business
brought no discussions from the group.

IX. On motion, duly made and sec-
onded, the meeting was adjourned.

 

Alumni Participate

(Continued from page 5)

Vassar. The Senior-Alumni Ball pre-
ceded this dance on Wednesday night
with Claude Thornhill furnishing the
music for both dances. An alumni
figure Wednesday night was led by H.
K. Young with Miss Mary Monroe
Penick, assisted by Mr. and Mrs.
Claiborne Gooch of Richmond.

Following adoption of a new policy
regarding class reunions, most of the
classes will hold reunions every five
vears, when all classes will rendezvous
in Lexington. The next mass reunion
will be in 1954.

One of the most widely scattered
alumni bodies in the nation, W. and L,.
“old grads” attending commencement
exercises were the fathers of 26 “alum-
ni sons” in the graduating class.

 

Two Washington and Lee men,
Latham Thigpen, Jr., ’41, and Jack B.
Coulter, *49, were presented the Key
Man awards of the Roanoke Junior
Chamber of Commerce on June 6,
1950, at the Roanoke, Virginia, Country
Club. Thigpen received his award for
his work in internal affairs, and
Coulter for his work in_ external
affairs.

Harry Lee boat (foreground) edges the Albert Sidney by three-quarters of a
boat length in 1950 renewal of traditional Finals Week race

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Order of the Coif Established at W &

As a part of the activities of com-
mencement week the recently organ-
ized Washington and Lee Chapter of
the Order of the Coif initiated its first
student members on Thursday, June
8, 1950, at Tucker Hall. The initiates
were William S. Hubard of Farmville,
Virginia; Ray S$. Smith, Jr., of Hot
Springs, Arkansas; and I. Leake
Wornom, Jr., of Newport News, Vir-
ginia, all of the June law graduating
class, and William J. Ledbetter of
Memphis, Tennessee (now practicing
law in New York City), and William
S. Todd of Kingsport, Tennessee,
from the February, 1950, law gradu-
ating class.

The Order of the Coif is the Na-
tional Law Honorary Society, which
had its origin in a fraternity organized
at the University of Illinois in 1902
under the name of Theta Kappa Nu
for the purpose of promoting scholar-
ship among law students. In 1912 the
national society was established and
the title “Order of the Coif” was
adopted, in reference to the ancient
English order of that name which was
one of the oldest and most honored
institutions of the common law.

The English order was an associa-
tion of lawyers from whose members
the judges of the Courts of Common
Pleas, King’s Bench and the Ex-
chequer were chosen, and who for
centuries had the sole right to appear
as barristers in those courts. Its roll
of members included the names of
many of the greatest lawyers and
judges of English history, such as
Coke, Littleton, Bacon, Glanville, and
Blackstone. The name “Coif” was
taken from the word used to designate

the cap, a close-fitting hood of white
silk, which all members were required
to wear. When wigs came into fashion,
the coif was changed in form to a
circular piece of white cloth fastened
to the top of the wig.

The American Order of the Coif
now counts as its members thirty-nine
of the leading law schools of the
United States, located in every section
of the nation. These include twenty-
five state university law schools and
other such outstanding institutions as
Yale, Cornell, Northwestern, Stanford,
Duke, Tulane, George Washington,
and the University of Chicago. In re-
ceiving its chapter this spring, Wash-
ington and Lee became the smallest
university to have its law school thus
recognized for high standards of
scholarship.

The constitution of the Society
states its purpose as being: “To foster
a spirit of careful study and to mark
in a fitting manner those who have
attained a high grade of scholarship”
in law school. Election of student
members is restricted by the consti-
tution to the percent of the gradu-
ating class who have attained the
highest scholastic rank in their law
school work, thereby demonstrating
especial capabilities in the study of
law. In addition, each chapter may an-
nually elect to honorary membership
one person who has attained distinc-
tion in the legal profession. And a new
chapter may elect students of the high-
est scholastic rank from graduating
classes of previous years since the law
school became a fully-accredited three-
year school. The Washington and Lee
group plans to take such action next

 

Leon Harris, ’15, Bleakley James, ’22, and Bruce Woodruff, ’16
with graduating sons

10

 
 
  
    
   
    
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
 
   

year, after there has been an oppe
tunity to review the records of gf
dents graduated during the past ge
eral years.

The awarding of a chapter of
Order to the Washington and
School of Law came as a result of g
application filed by the law faeyh
during the past winter. The
School was then investigated by
officer of the national society, wh
made a favorable recommendation —
the Executive Committee, on the bas
of the qualifications of the faculty,
content of the library, the adequ
of the physical facilities and the ge
eral standards of scholarship of
school. The Executive Committee,
turn, approved the application for
vote of all the member schools, wh
returned a favorable decision on th
petition. Next fall an installation se
ice will be held to mark the awardir
of the chapter to Washington and Le
At that time, the national society
send officers to Lexington to condue
the formal installation ceremony.

With the authorization of the n
chapter this year, the law faculty ¢
Washington and Lee Law School be
came charter members of this chapter
Professors Charles V. Laughlin ane
Theodore A. Smedley were already
members of the Society, having been
elected as law students, the former
George Washington University in 1928
and the latter at Northwestern Unt
versity in 1938. In organizing, the lo-
cal chapter elected Dean Clayton E.
Williams as_ president, Professor
Laughlin as vice-president and Profes-
sor Smedley as secretary-treasurer.

 

An Alumnus Writes

An alumnus of Washington and Leé,
Class of 1928-A, who is also an alunr
nus of four other institutions, writes
his Class Agent, enclosing a generous
check to the Class Fund, giving as his
reason for favoring Washington an@
Lee, rather than the other four,
follows:

“Dr. Gaines, at the Bicentennial, had
the courage to come out and criticiz€
the form of Federal assistance in edu-
cation which is now so prevalent.
feel that if our present American lif
and system of private enterprise is to
succeed, the teaching facilities have t€
be independent of Government subsid
and direction, and am glad to know
that Washington and Lee takes this
position. I am more than ever im
pressed and proud of the University;
and feel that my primary allegianc€
as an alumnus is to Washington an@
Lee.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Earle K. Paxton, ’08

Pi Phi’s Celebrate

Anniversary

Pi Kappa Phi’s Rho Chapter, char-
tered here February 21, 1920, with five
members, celebrated its 30th anniver-
sary at Finals, June 7 and 8, with
alumni of the chapter from all over
the country returning to join’ with
the active members in festivities cul-
minating in the banquet held at the
Natural Bridge Hotel on June 8, cli-
maxing two days of lawn _ buffets,
cocktail parties and alumni meetings.

Honor guest of the banquet was
Earle K. Paxton, 08, who completed
25 years this spring as adviser to the

chapter. Mr. Paxton has been the
guardian angel of the chapter through
all these years, especially in his efforts
to save it during the 1946 and 1947
years when only two active members
and two pledges returned to open the
house after the war. Mr. Paxton was
Presented with a gold Hamilton wrist
Watch, and Alex N. Thompson, ’40,
Presented the chapter with a handsome
'ramed portrait of Mr. Paxton, who
retired this year as active adviser, to
be hung in the chapter house, the gift
of Roy D. Witte, ’47, of Roanoke, Va.

Pi Kappa Phi, founded at Charles-
ton, S.C., in 1904, has grown from an
€ssentially Southern fraternity of 13
chapters to a national organization
With 46 undergraduate chapters. How-
ard D. Leake, ’24, of Birmingham,
Alabama, is national secretary of the
lraternity.

a

 

Summer Session of

the Law School

_ On July 3 the Law School at Wash-
i : ;
Ngton and Lee began an eight-weeks
“Ummer session.

Five courses are open to men who

 

have had at least one semester’s study
in approved law schools.

Washington and Lee discontinued
summer sessions in all divisions after
the 1948 school term.

The decision to revive summer
courses in the law school was an-
nounced by Dean Clayton E. Wil-
liams after a number of older law stu-
dents, mostly war veterans, had ex-
pressed a desire to accelerate their
legal studies without the normal sum-
mer vacation from academic life.

The summer curriculum is devised
to suit men who wish to engage in
two summers of study to advance
their graduation date by one _ full
semester.

Four members of the regular Wash-
ington and Lee faculty are directing
the summer program.
summer session.

Professor Charles R. McDowell is
conducting a four-semester hours
course in “Bills and Notes”; Professor
Joseph H. Wolfe is teaching a four-

semester hours class in “Conflict of

Laws”; and Miss Wanda Lee Spears,
law school librarian, a member of the
Kentucky Bar, is conducting a one-
semester hour course in legal ethics.
Two classes are being offered by Pro-
fessor Theodore A. Smedley—in
“Damages” and “Suretyship,’ each
carrying two semester hours credit.

Pie Bes

aCe AGT)

mae
DAVE OS

Bermuda Bound—“Minks” take off from New York for spring vacation

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Father of the Year

On June 18th, Father’s Day, the
American Business Association held a
dinner and reception at the Wardman
Park Hotel, Washington, D.C., hon-
oring Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson
as “Father of the Year.” Through the
courtesy of Arthur Clarendon Smith,
Jr., 41, and his father, all local Wash-
ington and Lee alumni were invited
to attend the reception. Honored with
the Chief Justice were Mrs. Vinson
and their two sons, Fred, Jr., 46, and
James, ’52. Harry J. Breithaupt, ’36,
was called upon and conveyed to the
Chief Justice the greetings of the
President, alumni, and students of the
University.

 

New Apartments

Work is now in progress on the erec-
tion of units housing 44 apartments
in Davidson Park on the south side of
East Nelson Street. Formerly occu-
pied by pre-fabricated housing units
accommodating married veterans, stu-
dents of Washington and Lee and their
families, the 25 units have now been
dismantled.

The new apartments will be built
by William D. Maxey, Inc., of Rich-
mond, contractor and developer. Each
unit is different in design and will be
built of brick and frame. Actual work
on the structures began the first week
in July.

ne

 

11

 

John M. Glenn, ’79

John M. Glenn

John M. Glenn, M.A. ’79, who dedi-
cated most of the 91 years of his life
to philanthropy, has bequeathed a sub-
stantial portion of his estate to his
alma mater. Mr. Glenn died April 20,
1950, in New York City.

Executors of his will have notified
Washington and Lee officials that the
University may anticipate receiving an
estimated $100,000 as residuary heir to
the Glenn estate.

Included in the estimate was an out-
right bequest of $20,000 which Mr.
Glenn added to a $10,000 gift made to
the University prior to his death last
April.

An 1879 graduate of Washington
and Lee, Mr. Glenn entered the field
of social welfare work and _ charity
soon after his college days. He served
as director or trustee of the $15,000,000
Russell Sage Foundation from its cre-
ation in 1907 until his death.

His other connections with philan-
thropic organizations were well known
throughout America. He was once
president of the National Conference
of Charities and Correction (now the
National Conference of Social Work).
His interest in philanthropy began in
his home city of Baltimore more than
50 years ago, when he became super-

12

Leaves Bequest

visor of the Baltimore city charities.

Mr. Glenn’s wife, whom he survived,
had likewise prominently identified
herself with welfare work throughout
the world. She was president of the
Family Welfare Association of Amer-
ica for 17 years.

In his marriage to the former Mary
Willcox Brown, daughter of Colonel
J. Willcox Brown, a prominent Balti-
more banker, Mr. Glenn held another
interesting connection with Washing-
ton and Lee University. It was Colonel
Brown who made a notable offer to
General Robert E. Lee to enter private
business after the War Between the
States, which the Confederate leader
rejected in favor of becoming president
of Washington College, re-named
Washington and Lee after his death.

Among older Washington and Lee
men, Mr. Glenn was remembered as
manager of a famous W. and L. base-
ball team of 1878 which introduced
the curve ball to the intercollegiate
sport in America and thereby stirred
up an interesting controversy in col-
legiate athletics of the period. Mr.
Glenn’s W. and L. team was accused
by rivals of “a scurvy trick” for having
a pitcher who could throw a baseball
“with abnormal gyrations.”

 
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
    
    
 
   
  
  
   
  
  

W & L Receive:
Two Deeds of Gj

Two substantial deeds of gift
Washington and Lee University fr
a trust established by Mrs. Alfreg
duPont, of Jacksonville, Florida,

announced by President Francis
Gaines.

One of the deeds of gift, valued
$152,000, was revealed for the ¢

time by Dr. Gaines at commencem,
exercises closing the 20Ist term
Washington and Lee.

Dr. Gaines disclosed also that
earlier share of interest in the
trust, conveyed to W. and L. last F
cember, has increased in value so
the total share of interest held by
university in the undivided trust y
amounts to about $424,000. ‘

Mrs. duPont has been a generg
benefactor of the University for
number of years. Her gifts to #
Washington and Lee _ bicentennial
nancial program exceeded $200,000, —

The Thomas Ball Foundation
Washington and Lee was created }
Mrs. duPont in 1946 as a memor
to her father for the purpose of givin
financial recognition to Washingte
and Lee professors cited for dj
tinguished teaching and_ scholarship

The University’s Third Centy
Fund, a continuation of the bicent
nial campaign inaugurated in 1947,
ported $642,000 had been received
the fund during the past year. Th
fund now stands at approximately
$2,309,000, including the value increas
of shares in the duPont trust.

 

Lamont . . Teacher
and Listmaker

One of the easiest ways to start am
argument is to pick lists of “best
whether they be football players, for
get-me-nots, nany goats, or novels.

Dr. William Hayes Fogg Lamon
‘17, an Associate Professor of Eng=
lish at Rutgers, has been braving
cross-fire of argument and downright
abuse for twenty years, as a result OF
his widely discussed lists of best books

This whole riotous business starte@
quite innocently one day at Atlante
City* during a talk given to a jJomep
convention of the librarians of New
Jersey and Pennsylvania.

Professor Lamont casually mem
tioned a list of great novels which he
had compiled for one of his colleg
courses.

An alert reporter copied the lis
relayed it to one of the great nation
wire services, and hundreds of news=
papers printed the story. j

This single news story turned Dre
Lamont into the central figure ®
arguments that have raged industrious-
ly ever since.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

That list, plus several others Lamont
compiled, represents the accumu-
1ion of several hundred schol-
red world-wide. Starting from
his own tentative “target” lists, he in-
corporates modifications as the ballots
and comments arrive.

Lamont’s lists are now firmly estab-
ished as being authoritative. Two new
ones Will be introduced this year, in
forthcoming books by Jasper Lee and
Komroff.

has '
tated opi!
ars scatt<

Manuel

And like every new edition’s publi-
cation, they'll bring a new rash of
comment and correspondence; he’s re-
signed to that.

Interest in the Lamont lists (which
cover biographies and drama as well
as novels) has been so great through
the years that almost a million copies
have been distributed to librarians in
this country and overseas.

He has lectured all over the Eastern
Seaboard, from Massachusetts to Vir-
ginia. For a number of years he was
one of the speakers of the famous
Boston Open Forum.

Dr. Lamont is an effective teacher.
His classes are informal, often quite
unorthodox. He doesn’t believe that
an English course should consist only
of a recital of biographical or biblio-
graphical data. The students seem to
agree with this point of view, for they
perennially rate him among the best
Rutgers teachers.

Last year when he went to the hos-
pital for a major operation, no less
than 22 of his students came forward
as blood donors. Nine had the proper
type, and two of the nine volunteers
were called upon.

Upon learning the identity of the
boys whose blood was actually flow-
ing in his veins, Lamont told a hospital
caller that he was proud to be the
only person in all Rutgers history who
had the distinction of being a member
of two different secret societies at the
same time: Beta Theta Pi by initiation
and Sigma Alpha Mu by transfusion.

At Washington and Lee Bill Lamont
Was a star member of the track team
and on the editorial staff of the South-
ern Collegian.

Chapter Meetings

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

_ Mecklenburg County in North Caro-
lina has a habit of being first in many
things, sack on May 20, 1775, colo-
Mists of this section wrote their own
Mecklenburg Declaration of Inde-
bendence and broke away from British
Control. It wasn’t until July 4, 1776,
that the rest of the young nation wrote
Its own Declaration of Independence.
Now Mecklenburg County, in which

 

————

~ rhe Atlantic City list which stirred up
. much national and international interest
4S called ‘Sixty Great Novels of All
“Ime.’’ This list probably obtained more
attention in the world press than any
hovel list ever issued.

| 2 at a NA

| Department & Saglish

| sacks.
Room 2038

fom ben is Ske,
‘fr Dirty of members

Department, swe bulletin
aah 7

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. William Lamont, whose lists of ‘bests’ in literature have
almost reached the million-mark in circulation

Charlotte is located, has done it again.
The Charlotte Chapter of Washington
and Lee Alumni is the first alumni
organization to establish a_ full-en-
dowed scholarship at the University,
an example which it hopes many other
chapters will follow.

The idea for an alumni scholarship
was born during the period of the Bi-
centennial celebration and was three-
fourths completed at the spring meet-
ing of the chapter in 1949. At this
time, Hugh G. Ashcraft, °41, was
president of the chapter. Moving
spirits in the campaign to raise the
funds were John L. Crist, Sr., °12, of
Charlotte, and Harry L. Shuey, ’24,
of Morganton, two of the leading in-
dustrialists in the state.

At the spring meeting in 1950, the
scholarship was quickly completed
The scholarship, slightly in excess of
$10,000, will provide some worthy stu-
dent at Washington and Lee about $400
“ach year toward his tuition. For the
1950-1951 session, it will be awarded to
some deserving senior who needs
funds to complete his last year of
work. Beginning with the fall term of
the 1951-1952 year, this scholarship
will be awarded annually to a student
from North Carolina, who will be
recommended by the Charlotte Chap-
ter Scholarship Committee, composed
of three chapter officers and two addi-
tional alumni appointed by the presi-
dent of the chapter.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Officers of the Charlotte Chapter
for this current year are Wilton M.
Garrison, ’28, President; John L. Crist,
Jr., °45, Vice-President; and Herbert

Woodward, °41, Secretary-Treasurer.

The Scholarship Committee is com-
posed of the three above officers and,
in addition, John L. Crist, Sr., and
George B. Wilkinson, ’26, who acted
as co-chairmen during the campaign to
raise the funds for this endowment.

John L. Crist, ’12

13

Much credit for having this endow-
ment completed is due to the efforts
of these two co-chairmen.

The Charlotte Alumni Chapter
draws its membership from Charlotte
and nearby cities and towns, including
Lenoir, Morganton, Lincolnton, Salis-
bury, Gastonia, Concord, etc.

Washington and Lee’s bicentennial
year is over, but there is a tricenten-
nial year coming. The Mecklenburg
Chapter has placed its cornerstone in
that building and sincerely hopes that
other progressive alumni chapters
over the nation will follow the ex-
ample quickly.

The Charlotte Chapter will have its
annual autumn meeting on Friday
night, October 20th, on the eve of the
game between Washington and Lee
and Davidson at Davidson. President
Gaines, the Generals’ coaching staff,
Alumni Secretary Cy Young and other
University officials and many alumni
are expected to be present. All Wash-
ington and Lee alumni are invited to
attend the meeting and the game at
Davidson on Saturday following.

 

LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA

Addressing local Washington and
Lee alumni at their annual banquet
meeting at Boonsboro Country Club
June 29, Dr. Francis P. Gaines sum-
med up his reply to the “voice of
doom” in United States Education
which sees a bleak future for the pri-
vate, independent institution against
the competition of the State supported
school with the statement, “We are
not afraid of the future.” Dr. Gaines
said he sensed a mounting feeling of
public opinion toward the private col-
lege coupled with a growing revulsion
of the forces now operating in educa-
tion and elsewhere toward socialism.
Citing the difficulty of maintaining
Washington and Lee standards in the
face of increasing economic problems,
he voiced an appeal to all alumni for
their continued support, material and
moral.

Peyton B. Winfree, president of the
local chapter, presided at the meeting,

and George Barclay, head _ football
coach, and Harry K. (Cy) Young,
alumni secretary, spoke briefly of
football prospects for the fall and

alumni activities at the University.

Hugh D. Ebert was elected presi-
dent of the local chapter for the en-
suing year; Richard Howell, vice-
president; and Edmund Schaefer, sec-
retary-treasurer.

Class Notes

(Continued from page 22)

 

Champe Raftery is practicing law in
Phoenix, Arizona. Address: Box 4242,
Phoenix, Arizona.

David K. Caldwell is doing gradu-
ate work—Master’s Degree—at the
University of Michigan and plans to

14

 

 

Larry Watkin

graduate this June in Zoology. He will
probably go on with doctoral work
next year at some other school—now
undetermined. Address: 523 Mack
Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

1950

Marion Cordon Robertson, who re-
ceived his B.A. degree at Finals in
June, is taking a six-weeks course this
summer at the University of London,
England.

 

Watkin Success As
Hollywood Writer

Condensed from article by Carol Leh
in the Richmond Times-Dispatch

How many college professors expect
to become Hollywood screenwriters?

Lawrence EF. Watkin made the jump
—from 16 years on the Washington
and Lee campus to Hollywood success,
culminating in the forthcoming Disney
technicolor, “Treasure Island.”

When you see Disney’s initial full-
length live production, an historic first
in the motion picture industry, you
will be watching the skillful work of
the former Virginia professor. As
screenwriter for “Treasure Island,” it
was Watkin’s job to condense the
famous Robert Louis Stevenson novel
to a film of popular length, and yet
preserve the flavor of the colorful ad-
venture story.

“Having taught eighteenth-century
drama at Washington and Lee helped
a great deal when I tackled England

 

of 1765 for Walt Disney,” Watk
said. “I had a good head start. B
there was still plenty of research
be done. I read Stevenson 15 tim
before I ever began plotting the serip
and I supplemented the book by cor
suming scores of period plays.”
Estimating that he taught arour
2,000 college students during his tenu
on the Lexington campus, Lawrene
Watkin now has another credit,
“Treasure Island,” that has brougl
high praise to the former Virginia
Hollywood paid tribute to the Di
ney production by appearing in gré
throngs at the preview at the Motice
Picture Academy. Declared Variety, i
its review of June 23: “... Lawrene
Watkin has done a masterful piece
scripting...” The screenwriter’s fa
orite criticism, however, appeared
a London journal which stated: “Th
are no disturbing Americanisms.”
In soft color and to the music of th
Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, th
picture, which was made in Englame
unfolds the story of a search for burié
treasure. With cabin-boy Jim Hawkil
(Bobby Driscoll), the audience board
a square-rigger and sails to a secre
island. They shudder and laugh at tM
antics of Long John Silver (Robef
Newton); glide over smooth blw
waters and watch stormy fightin
among the part-pirate crew; hide
jungle and stockade. All the element
of adventure are in the Disney produe
tion of the Stevenson classic. As OF
critic said: “If men and women imag
ine they have outgrown the delight
of their youth, let them again take Uf
this story.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN#&

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  

 

Class

1899

pr. S. C. Lind, consultant for Car-
pide and Carbon Chemicals Division
in Oak Ridge and member of the Oak
Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies
Board of Directors, gave the intro-
ductory talk as a radiation symposium
held in conjunction with the installa-
sion of Sigma Xi Chapter at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee on April 8. Ad-
dress: 622 W. Vanderbilt Drive, Oak
Ridge, Tennessee.

1905

Haney Berlin Conner, Vice-Presi-
dent, Donaldson State Bank, Donald-
son, Louisiana, has replied to his Class
Agent in a very pertinent poem of
many verses, too long to quote in full,
the last verse of which reads:

“T cannot hope to rest at night
Until I’ve sent to you my mite,
To say with all sincerity:

‘Thank God for Washington and
Lee.’ 9?
His Class Agent, D. A. Bradham,

also bursts forth into verse in his
reply—we quote in part:
“Tf all our classmates were like you,
Willing to share their dollars few;
Our Alumni Fund would grow and
grow,
‘Til we could put on a big show.”

A. Steele Hays is Vice-President and
General Counsel, Dardanelle & Rus-
sellville Railroad Company, Russell-
ville, Arkansas. He still practices law
in the same office building he has
occupied since 1903, having two asso-
ciates who have been with him for 10
years, to whom he leaves trial work.

Harvey C. Crabill is still practicing
law at Monroeville, Indiana, but con-
fining his work almost entirely to pro-
bate practice with some real estate
Matters now and then.

S. Blount Mason, after leaving
Washington and Lee, took a job with
the U.S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co.,
as office boy at a salary of $2.50 a
week. After being with that company
until last October (46 years) he was
retired, not as an office boy, but Vice-
President.

He writes his Class Agent: “When I
‘ee what is happening at state universi-
tes, where buildings are going up like
Mushrooms and not always in con-

 

 

Let us remind you again that the ma-
terial from which these notes was
compiled consists of letters received
by the class agents during the past
spring and summer and from ques-
tionnaires returned by alumni during
that period. If notes are not up-to-date,
we would appreciate any further infor-
mation you can let us have.

 

formity with the old style which was
so beautiful, getting a terrific increase
in their student body, I am _ indeed
proud of the gradual increase and
dignified manner in which W. and L.
is progressing and keeping its beauty
and traditions.” Address: 4306 Rugby
Road, Baltimore 10, Maryland.

1906

Claude Pobst complains that, in spite
of having recently passed his 66th
birthday, he is still too busy. He has
been practicing law in Grundy, Vir-
ginia, for the past 44 years.

Ira T. Ritenour is still farming his
960 acres in small grain at Pendroy,
Montana.

Brent E. Clark, now retired from
engineering work, is fully occupied
with his hotel operation, church work,
his three children and four grandchil-
dren. Address: James Hotel, Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma.

Judge Richard B. Spindle was in
Lexington in the spring attending the
Tucker Memorial Lectures delivered
this year by Judge Vanderbilt, and
reports that he enjoyed his visit very
much. He is Judge of the Corporation
Court of Norfolk, Virginia.

Henry C. Tillman was appointed
Circuit Judge of the 13th Judicial Cir-
cuit of Florida last October, which has
meant a complete change in the nature
of his work. The number of his grand-
children has increased to five.

George W. P. Whip reports that his
firm name has been changed to Lord,
Whip and Coughlan instead of Lord
and Whip, with offices at 823 Munsey
Building, Baltimore 2, Maryland.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Notes

Walter H. Dunlap is President of
Southdown Shores, Inc.; Proprietor,
Wild Acres Subdivision, waterfront
development near Edgewater, Mary-
land. He is still with the Federal
Power Commission, Washington, D. C.
Address: The Highlands, Washington
> Des.

1907

John S. Moore has moved from Bur-
ley, Idaho, and is now living at 2905
West Yakima Avenue, Yakima, Wash-
ington. The move from Idaho was
made last November following approv-
al of his application for retirement
from the federal service after 42 years
continuous employment with the Bu-
reau of Reclamation on irrigation work
in the states of Washington, Colorado
and Idaho. During the years 1941-44
he was in general charge, as Director of
Operation and Maintenance, of all
operating projects in the 17 Western
States with Denver as_ his head-
quarters. On May 1, 1950, he entered
on duty in Yakima as Secretary of the
Scottish Rite Bodies in that vicinity.
He and Mrs. Moore celebrated their
40th wedding anniversary on June 22.
The family group was together at that
time, numbering 25, made up of six
children who are all married and liv-
ing in Washington State, and 11
grandchildren.

1908

Alan Porter Lee’s work as an en-
gineer is connected with vegetable oils,
soaps and developed products in that
class, with clients abroad as well as in
the United States. His company, Alan
Porter Lee, Inc., has recently designed
the plant and shipped the machinery
for the manufacture of butter substi-
tute and salad oil from palm oil in
British Malaya, and a small new laun-
dry and toilet soap plant in Venezuela.
They have also designed and furnished
equipment for an oil refining plant in
Venezuela, and a complete margarine
plant, which is a new venture for that
country. Address: 150 Broadway, New
SOCK 7,8. x:

Rev. Robert R. Gray is Minister
of Union and Salem Presbyterian
Churches at Union, West Virginia. He
has been minister of Union Church for
33 years. Recently, in appreciation of
their 25 years of service at Salem
Church, Mr. and Mrs. Gray were pre-
sented with beautiful wristwatches at

15

a congregational dinner in their honor.
They have two daughters, each of
whom has two sons. One of the
daughters and her husband are mis-
sionaries in the Belgian Congo. The
husband of the other daughter is a
professor in the University of Missouri.

Philip P. Page, Vice-President and
General Manager, Chicago Journal of
Commerce, writes that his older son,
Philip P., Jr., ’45, is planning to be
married in June to a New Jersey girl,
and he and his wife will go down to
the wedding. As they will drive, they
plan to stop off in Lexington on their
way home. Address: Chicago Journal
of Commerce, 12 East Grand Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.

Robert S. Keebler is now engaged
in regulating holding company systems
in the utility industry with S. E. C. His
older son, Robert S., Jr., graduated
from Washington and Lee three years
ago, and the younger, John K., will
graduate here next year. Address: 212
Raymond Street, Chevy Chase, Mary-
land.

E. H. McGill is an engineer with
the New Mexico State Highway De-
partment, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
His daughter is Assistant Professor of
Education at the University of New
Mexico in Albuquerque. Address: 904
N. Girard, Albuquerque, New Mexico.

H. R. Mahler, former Superintend-
ent of Thomasville City Schools,
Thomasville, Georgia, retired at the
end of this school year, and now lives
at 5 Morrison Lane, Beaconsdale,
Newport News, Virginia.

Perry W. Turner is a member of
the law firm of Martin, Turner &
McWhorter, 600 North 18th Street,
Birmingham 3, Alabama.

Donald P. Boyer, Virginia Me-
chanics Institute, Richmond 19, Vir-
ginia, received his A.B. here in 1908.
At the age of 55 he went back to school
and received the M.A. degree from
the University of Virginia. His is a
vigorous family, for his father, now
85 years old, is still going strong except
for a little deafness.

1909

Preston Irwin is in England doing
some consulting work on iron and
steel construction for his firm, Arthur
C. McKee & Company, 2300 Chester
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. He and Mrs.
Irwin spent nine months in England
last year and will be in that country
for six or more months in 1950.

Reuben Ragland is a member of the
law firm of Ragland, Kurz and Layton,
Suite 608, Consolidated Building, Jack-
sonville 2, Florida.

16

Dr. John W. Claudy, Superintendent
of Rockview Prison, R.F.D. Belle-
fonte, Pennsylvania, since January,
1932, will succeed Stanley P. Ashe as
warden of Western State Penitentiary
at Pittsburgh as soon as a replacement
for Dr. Claudy has been effected. An
ordained Presbyterian minister, Dr.
Claudy instituted many improvements
in the educational facilities offered in-
mates of Rockview and also super-
vised much of the expansion of the
prison’s farming and canning facilities.

Beirne Stedman is Associate Editor,
Editorial Department, The Michie
Company, Charlottesville, Virginia,
publishers of law books. He says his
only claim to distinction is that he is
probably the only member of his class
who is blessed with having both par-
ents alive and in good health.

Guyte P. McChord is Clerk of the
Supreme Court of Florida, Tallahasee,
Florida.

Judge Daniel K. Sadler is in his
third term as a Justice of the New
Mexico Supreme Court, having been
elected initially for an eight-year term
in 1930, and reelected for like terms in
38 and ’46. When his present term
ends December 31, 1954, he will have
completed 24 years of service on the
Supreme Court of New Mexico.

1910

Rayford W. Alley is practicing law
with the firm of Alley, Cole, Grimes
and Friedman, 30 Broad Street, New
York 4, N. Y. He says he will be 60
years old next fall and thinks, in times
like these, men should devote part of
their time to government or public or
humanitarian service. He is still active
in business, having the responsibility of
the Chairmanship of General Pumice
Corporation of Santa Fe, New Mexico,
for two years besides his legal work.
For the past two years he has devoted
considerable time to the Webb School
of Bell Buckle, Tennessee, of which
he is a Trustee. Recently he became
a member of the Advisory Committee,
called Columbia Associates, of the
Board of Trustees of Columbia Uni-
versity.

Charles I. Dwiggins was in the bank-
ing business for about 20 years after
leaving school, retiring from same to
take up citrus growing at Lake Gibson,
Lakeland, Florida. He served as Re-
ceiver of National Banks in his county
and, later, as one of Lakeland’s City
Commissioners, all the time operating
his citrus groves. His son, William
Clay, graduated from Washington and
Lee in 1937. Both of his sons saw duty
in the last war in the South Pacific,
and the younger has recently joined

   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   

the Army and is now with our A
defenses near Fairbanks, Alas

1911

John G. Herndon, Chairman
partment of Government, Hay
College, 1 College Lane, Hays
Pennsylvania, during the mon
December was elected to the folf,
organizations: The Council of P}
Kappa of Philadelphia, with aboy
members; Vice-President of the
ican Society of Genealogists; me
ship in the Franklin Inn Club of ]
delphia; and Vice-President ¢
Genealogical Society of Pennsy}
He has been editor of the publi
of the latter society, The Penns,
Genealogical Magazine, for
years.

Frank C. Bedinger began the
tice of law in Boydton, Virgini
devoted most of his time as Sur
tendent of Schools until 1918 wh
again resumed the active practi
law and has been at it ever since
served a term of 12 years as Re
in Bankruptcy for the districts
posed of Lunenburg, Mecklenbu
Brunswick Counties, Virginia. In
he was elected Commonwealth’s
torney of Mecklenburg County,
position he held for four terms o
years each. His son, Frank C., Jr.
after war service is now pract
with his father under the firm 1
of Bedinger & Bedinger, Boye
Virginia. 9

  
 
 
    
    
   
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   

‘

James M. Barker, Jr., has now
come a Virginian, having moved f
the Tennessee side of Bristol, Virg
across the street into the Virginia
of the city. His parents and his
were all born in Virginia, so he sh
easily become naturalized. He
“It was good enough for General
so it ought to be OK for me.”
home address: Valley Road, Sp
Garden, Bristol, Virginia. ’

1912

Arlos J. Harbert, Judge of the Cr
inal Court of Harrison County, Cle
burg, West Virginia, after war sé
graduated from the College of
of the University of West Virginia.
practiced in Clarksburg for five ye
during which time he was elected
served one term in the West Virg
Legislature. While attending a spe
session of that body he was nomimné
for his present office and is now S@
ing the fifth consecutive term.

Dr. Frank R. Ruff graduated
medicine from the Medical College
Virginia. After a few years’ pract
in North Carolina, was commissiof
in the Army, went through We
War I, and was with the governm
for seven years. He went to Fres

     
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
   

 
 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN

  

California, 25 years ago, taking over

X-ray and Radium section of what
now Fresno Community Hospital.
e has handled many thousands of
tients through his section, done much
research, and written a great deal on
any medical and other subjects. He
is jeaving the hospital, building a new
office and going into private practice.
He is married and all of his three chil-
dren are now married. He has two
grandchildren. Address: 2934 Fresno
Street, Fresno, California.

Rt. Rev. Lloyd R. Craighill, D.D.,
js rector of Saint James Parish, Her-
ring Creek, Lothian, Maryland. Since
it was best to turn over his work in
China after many years service as a
missionary of the Episcopal Church
to a Chinese bishop, he and Mrs.
Craighill are very happy to find this
new work to do among congenial
surroundings.

R. T. Stinson is the senior member
of the Bar of Bryan County, Durant,
Oklahoma. He has recently associated
with himself in the practice of law,
Stanley Williams, LL. B., *48.

J. H. Adams is Public Relations
Director for Osborne County Farmers
Union Cooperative Association, Os-
borne, Kansas.

Theo. P. Rice is Assistant Superin-
tendent of Agencies for the Connecti-
cut General Life Insurance Company,
Hartford 15, Connecticut.

1913

S. C. Rose, West Point, Mississippi,
is still doing a job on his plantation,
“Roselands,” with cotton, corn, hay,
and Black Angus cattle.

Robert R. Witt is Chairman of the
Board of Builders Supply Company,
P.O. Box 90, San Antonio 6, Texas.
He writes his Class Agent: “Our Alma
Mater has been blessed with phenom-
enally good guidance during its 200
years of usefulness, and is particularly
fortunate at the present time. I have
the feeling that a dollar in the hands
of Washington and Lee today buys
more good guidance for our youth than
any school anywhere has to offer.”

Adrian Williamson is a member of
the law firm of Williamson and Wil-
liamson, Monticello, Arkansas. His son
'S graduating from the University of
Arkansas, and a daughter from Agnes
Scott College, this year.

Dr. William Taylor Thom, Jr., Pro-
€ssor of Geology at Princeton Univer-
‘ity, is one of the officers of the Yel-
lowstone-Bighorn Research Associa-
tion, Inc., Beartooth Research Camp,
Red Lodge, Montana. Dr. M. H. Stow,

Tofessor of Geology at Washington

and Lee, is one of the councilors with
this organization.

C. C. (Red) Moore is with the Nord-
strom Valve Division, Rockwell Manu-
facturing Company, 43 West Long
Street, Columbus, Ohio. He _ was
elected a member of the Alumni Board
of Trustees June °49.

Herbert Tyler Taylor is with A. M.
Pullen & Co., C. P. A.’s, Richmond,
Virginia. His three sons, all of whom
were in the service during the last
war, are now married. The oldest boy
is connected with Linde Air Company
in Birmingham, Alabama; the second
boy graduated in medicine at the Uni-
versity of Virginia in June; and the
youngest is a chemist with the Virginia
Carolina Chemical Company in Rich-
mond. His new address is now 1619
Laburnum Avenue, Richmond, Va.

1914

J. Goodloe Jackson has been Dis-
trict Representative for the Corn
Products Refining Company, with
headquarters in Cumberland, Mary-
land, for the past 25 years. He has a
married daughter and two lovely
granddaughters. Address: 610 Shriver
Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland.

1916

Thomas A. Myles has been engaged
in the practice of law in Fayetteville,
West Virginia, since graduation. His
son, Thomas E., is now practicing
with his father and a daughter is sec-
retary of the firm, so it is quite a
family affair.

C. Edmund Worth closed out his
law practice four years ago and is
now a realtor, selling motor courts in
all parts of Florida. He is known as
“The Florida Motor Court Specialist,”
and is President of the Tampa Board
of Realtors this year. Address: P.O.
Box 9298, Tampa 4, Florida.

Clarence J. Brown, Congressman
from the Seventh Ohio District, says
the only news he has is that they have
doubled the number of grandsons this
year, now having four—all Repub-
licans.

1917

Milton B. Rogers, American Water
Works Service Company, Inc., reports
that the company offices have now been
moved from New York to Philadel-
phia, so that his business address is
now c/o American Water Works Serv-
ice Company, Inc., 121 South Broad
Street, Philadelphia 7, Pennsylvania.
Milton is still a director and Vice-
President of Northeastern Water Com-
pany which controls American Water
Works Company, Inc., of which he is
also a Director.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

William J. Cox returned to Lees-
burg, Virginia, a couple of years ago
“to enjoy a little lazy leisure,’ but
Billy let himself be talked into taking
the job as Chief Engineer to the Penn-
sylvania Highway Planning Commis-
sion—which keeps him in Pennsyl-
vania half of each week—and also
agreed to write the section on High-
way Engineering for the American
Civil Engineers Handbook; so finds
himself about as busy as he has ever

been.
1918

R. M. Bear is still at his old job of
Aircraft Propeller Engineering in the
Navy Bureau of Aeronautics in Wash-
ington, D.C. On last August 27th he
attained his 30 years in government
service, and is beginning to look for-
ward to the time when he can retire
to some quiet country place in Vir-
ginia from which he can “peer out on
the world and see the stir of Babel
without being jostled by it, if the mad
trend of the times will permit.” Ad-
dress: 1401 Fairmont St., N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

Charles E. Williamson has been in
the tobacco business with T. S. Wil-
liamson & Co., leaf tobacco dealers
and exporters, of Danville, Virginia,
for 31 years, and is now the senior
member of the firm. The company has
handled about five million pounds of
tobacco this past season, mostly for
the cigar trade in the U.S. A.

1919

Gus A. Fritchie and his wife and
daughter were in Lexington for the
graduation of his son, Gus A., Jr., on
June 9th. He is practicing law in Sli-
dell, Louisiana.

Jim Moore, Minter Homes Corpora-
tion, Huntington, West Virginia, re-
ports that his son, Dan, graduated
from Woodberry-Forest School on
June 10, and will enter Washington
and Lee in the fall. His older son,
Jimmy, is completing his first year
at the Medical School of the Univer-
sity of West Virginia, and daughter,

Betsy, who married Walter Scott
Browning, is living in Evansville,
Indiana.

W. F. Barron, Rome Coca Cola Bot-
tling Company, Rome, Georgia, has a
son, W. F., Jr., now in the sophomore
class at Washington and Lee.

George T. Madison, Madison, Madi-
son, Files and Shell, P.O. Box 510,
Bastrop, Louisiana, in addition to his
law practice, takes a great deal of in-
terest in the educational system of
Louisiana and has been a member of
the State Board of Education since
1931, and President of the Board for

17

the past three years. He was recently
elected President of the Louisiana Bar
Association, taking office on May 6.
He has two daughters, one of whom
is married and the other a Junior at
Newcomb College in New Orleans.

Leonard T. Brown, 700 W. Jackson
Avenue, Bridgeport, Connecticut, is
completing 30 years in the wholesale
paper business. His daughter, Muriel,
married Harvey Glenn Chaffer, B. A..,
49, and they have two children, Holly
and Kim.

Ray Till, Marblehead Housing Au-
thority, Marblehead, Massachusetts,
reports that his family is growing up.
One of his daughters is living in
Maine; the second is on Okinawa with
her husband and five-year-old son; the
third daughter is in college in Ver-
mont; and a son, Robert, is a junior
in high school “and a sweet little ball
player.”

Dr. Samuel A. Anderson, Jr., is still
practicing Pediatrics in Richmond,
Virginia, at 1832 Monument Avenue.
He has three children, the oldest boy
ready for Washington and Lee in the
fall of 1951.

1920

Glen Evins is Vice-President and
Manager of Lykes Brothers, Insurance
Agency, 203 Franklin Street, Tampa,
Florida.

C. Howard McCain has been con-
nected with the William Hengerer
Company, department store, in Buffalo,
New York, for the past 19 years. His
oldest son has finished his sophomore
year at Washington and Lee, and the
younger son, now a junior in high
school, expects to be here after he
graduates.

1921

Philo Coco is practicing law in
Marksville, Louisiana. His son, Philo,
Jr., is now a student at Washington
and Lee.

1922

Henry B. Robinson has been with
the Norfolk and Western Railway
Company in Roanoke, Virginia, since
leaving school. He is now General
Foreman of the Locomotive Depart-
ment at Roanoke Shops. He has two
sons, one ten and one five years old.
Address: 3418 Forest Hills Avenue,
Roanoke, Virginia.

Samuel L. Sanderson is in his sec-
year of business in “The Kid Store,”
and selling kid furniture, toys, books
and sporting goods. He represented
Washington and Lee at the inaugura-
tion of Dr. Reid as President of West-
ern Carolina Teachers College at Cul-
lowhee, North Carolina. Mail address:
Route 1, Waynesville, North Carolina.

18

Paul M. Miller entered the Foreign
Service Department three years ago
and has been serving in London,
Geneva, and Belfast, Ireland, where
he is now Vice-Consul. He was mar-
ried in London two years ago to an
English girl and they are now the
proud parents of a rugged little blond
boy named Michael, who was eight
months old last June. Paul has been
overseas two and a half years, and
expects home leave later this summer.
Address: American Consulate General,
Belfast, Northern Ireland.

William F. McCann has been with
the Transportation Department, Pitts-
burgh and Lake Erie Railroad, since
1922. Address: 413 Northview Avenue,
New Castle, Pennsylvania.

1923

Thomas Jean Ellis, practicing law
in Miami Beach and _ Tallahassee,
Florida, says he has done little since
graduation except practice law and
bring up three boys who are now
at the stage of giving him suggestions,
and often very sensible ones—Tom,
after geophysics at Colorado School
of Mines; Bill, top-ranking in the sec-
ond class at V. M.I.; and Ed, a soph-
omore at Washington and Lee, who
gives promise of becoming a lawver.

Wyatt French left the department
store field last year and started a new
business—home furnishings, as always.
His son, Wyatt, Jr., ’52, is working
with him as sales manager. Address:
6419 Three Chopt Road, Richmond,
Virginia.

Frank Hurt is still teaching History
and Political Science at Western State
College where he has been since
1930. As a personal hobby, he has
coached the tennis team of the college
since 1935, having a record of 142
wins and 72 losses.

Thomas Morrell Wade is Factory
Branch Manager, Brown and William-
son Tobacco Company, Louisville,
Kentucky. His son, Tommy, will enter
Washington and Lee in 1952. Address:
3309 Oriole Drive, Louisville, Ky.

Joseph R. Long is a member of the
law firm of Fordyce, Mayne, Williams
and Hartman, 506 Olive Street, St.
Louis 1, Missouri. At the time his let-
ter was written in May, his right leg
was completely encased in “at least
20 pounds of concrete sewer pipe,”
following an operation on his knee,
from which he was making a satis-
factory recovery.

R. Maurice Frew is still handling
labor relations for the Columbia Divi-
sion of Pacific Mills, Columbia, South
Carolina. He is married and has two
daughters, one who will finish at the

‘L., Class of ’65.

   
  
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
    
   
        
      
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   

University of South Carolina nex
and the other will enter Conve
lege as a freshman.

Weldon T. Kilmon says, “J
perfect vacation would be
months wandering around the ec
looking up and dropping in on
bers of the Class of 1923. I an
that in such a journey I would }
to see the results of the excellent
ing, training in independent thi
given us at W. and L,. I think
results would be superior to
achieved by colleges which are 5
by politics, or supported by impe
public taxes.” .

O. Forrest McGill still supe
all the Midwest mortgage loan
of the Prudential Insurance Cor
of America. His work occasion:
siderable traveling, which gives
the opportunity to renew acquaint,
with classmates and other Washi
and Lee men. His daughter is a
man at Duke University, and his
year-old son is preparing for

Lyle Sattes has resigned his po
with the Belle Alkali Compan
Charleston, West Virginia, afte
years with that organization. His
activities now are the managemeé
his father’s estate and the St. Al
Sand Company, of which he is
owner. Address: 2000 Kanawha L
S. E., Charleston, West Virginia.

1924

Colonel Jim Seals has been in I
bul, Turkey, for the past four me
as Instructor in Logistics in
Turkish Staff College—Staff Co
Section, Tusag, American Mission
Aid to Turkey, c/o American
ate General, Istanbul, Turkey. He
he and his wife like the assignr
and have a delightful time socialh
there is a group of about 25 off
and their families in the Istanbul

  

Barrett C. Shelton is still publisl
The Decatur Daily at Decatur,
bama. His son, Barrett, Jr., is a fr
man at Washington and Lee, ane
is planning to send his daugt
Suzanne, to Mary Baldwin in a
years.

Vicars B. Watts, as of March
launched a new real estate firm um
the corporate name of Watts Re
Company. W. Roy Campbell, 719,
associated with him in the enterpt!
Address: Watts Realty Comp
Huntington, West Virginia. 4

1925

Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, after §
ing for ten years as Pastor of Hed
Methodist Church in Jacksom

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

 

 

Florida, was moved at the recent ses-
sion of the Methodist Annual Confer-
ence and made District Superintendent
of the Sarasota District. They do not
yet have a District Parsonage, hence
pis temporary address is 508 East 14th
Street, Sarasota, Florida.

Sam Bucholtz is practicing law in
acksonville, Florida, with offices at
7-C Atlantic National Bank Building.
His older son is a freshman at Wash-
ington and Lee this year.

1926

Lee Fagan started his 19th year with
Atlantic Greyhound Lines in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, on June Ist, with
which he has had a very pleasant
association.

P. M. (Si) Schuchart got “messed
up”in an automobile accident early in
January and was in an Orlando hos-
pital for a long stretch. Excellent
surgery and hospital care paid off,
however, and with an even break of
luck, he expects to be on the golf
course by the end of the summer.
Address: c/o Southeastern Telephone
Company, Tallahassee, Florida.

1927

Zack Rogers is still Sales Manager
of Gilbert Hyde Chick Company, Hos-
pital Equipment, but has a new perma-
nent address at 421 Heard Street,
Elberton, Georgia, where he has re-
modeled a home. He has recently put
in a branch office for his company
in Georgia.

Charles L. Claunch, after a general
law practice for 13 years, became a
member of the law firm of Taber,
Chambliss, Swafford & Claunch, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building, Chattanooga
2, Tennessee, and since that time has
thoroughly enjoyed the practice con-
fined to taxation, corporation, trusts
and estates.

William M. Pope, Class Agent for
27-A, is now Assistant Trust Officer,
National Bank and Trust Company,
Charlottesville, Virginia. He is mar-
ried and has three children, William
M., Jr., Jackson H., and John C—
“three potential candidates for admis-
Sion to Washington and Lee.”

1928

Herbert A. Lewis is President of
the First National Bank, Fayetteville,
Arkansas. He writes that he has four
Sons and will be greatly disappointed
if at least one of them does not elect
to go to Washington and Lee.

Lyle M. Armentrout is District Rep-
resentative for Dietrich & Gambrill,
Ne., traveling the Valley of Virginia

Virginia. He has a daughter who has
just completed her second year at
Juniata College, Huntingdon, Pennsyl-
vania, and a second daughter who will
be a sophomore in high school next
year.

Joe Clower, Jr., is Minister of the
First Presbyterian Church, Morgan-
ton, North Carolina.

Wilton M. (Red) Garrison is still
Sports Editor of The Charlotte Ob-
server, Charlotte, North Carolina. He
had a story in The Saturday Evening
Post last fall and several in Sports
Magazine.

George DePass is practicing law in
Spartanburg, South Carolina, in part-
nership with his brother, under the
firm name of DePass & DePass, Cleve-
land Law Building. He has a growing
family of three daughters, Jenny
Briggs, age 7; Lucy Moselle, age 4;
and Mary Stuart, born May 1, 1950.

A. P. Bondurant, Vice-President and
and Piedmont. His home is in Edom,
Advertising Director of Glenmore Dis-
tilleries Company, Louisville, Ken-
tucky, has been elected the new Presi-
dent of the Advertising Club of Louis-
ville, the South’s largest organization
of advertising and marketing execu-
tives and the oldest luncheon club in
Kentucky. During World War II, he
served with distinction in the Air
Force as a Lieutenant Colonel and
was awarded the Legion of Merit for
his work in connection with the China-
Burma-India campaign.

William C. Norman is with Crossett
Lumber Company, manufacturers of
forest products, Crossett, Arkansas.
His son will start his junior year in
high school in September, and he hopes
he is headed toward Washington and
Lee.

J. L. Comegys is still operating an
insurance and loan business in Mc-
Kinney, Texas, which he reopened
when he returned from Navy service
after the war.

Stuard A. (Stu) Wurzburger is look-
ing forward to a gathering of class-
mates in Lexington, to celebrate their
25th year since graduation, in 1953.
He is a member of the firm of Wurz-
burger and Steinman, labor consult-
ants .to management, 10 East 40th
Street, New York 16, New York.

1930

Ed White has accepted a position
with the Law Department of the As-
sociation of Western Railways, 204 S.
Canal Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Dr. John P. Lynch is still with the
McGuire Clinic, St. Luke’s Hospital,

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Richmond, Virginia. He is now secre-
tary and treasurer of the Virginia Hos-
pital Service Association, the Blue
Cross of Virginia.

Francis H. Styles has been American
Consul General, Guayaquil, Ecuador,
for about a year, and has found Ecua-
dor a fascinating country. He writes:
“One surprising feature of Guayaquil
is the temperature; it never goes over
87 degrees and the average annual
temperature is around 75 degrees, and
yet Guayaquil is only two degrees from
the equator. The Humboldt current,
which cools the waters off the coast
of Ecuador, is the cause of the low
temperature, as the prevailing winds
come off these waters.”

Howerton Gowen is President of
Howerton Gowen Co., Inc., Chemical
Manufacturers, with distribution points
in Norfolk and Roanoke, Virginia. He
has a son, 9 years old, and twins, 7
(boy and girl). Address: Roanoke
Rapids, North Carolina.

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton is prac-
ticing internal medicine, specializing in
allergy, in St. Louis, Missouri, and
participating on the teaching staff of
the Washington University Medical
School. He is married and has a daugh-
ter, age four and a half. He served in
the U.S. Army Medical Corps for over
four years. Address: Beaumont Medi-
cal Building, 3720 Washington Boule-
vard, St. Louis 8, Misouri.

Robert W. Moseley is teaching Soci-
ology and Economics at the Arkansas
State Teachers College at Conway,
Arkansas, where he has been since his
discharge from the Navy in 1945, Dur-
ing the summer he is working toward
his Ph. D. degree in History at the
University of Texas. Address: 1454
College Avenue, Conway, Arkansas.

Ed Bostwick is still with The Trav-
elers Insurance Company in Richmond,
Virginia. His residence address is now
1306 Grove Avenue, Richmond, Vir-
ginia, as he has recently purchased a
home there.

Frank L. Shipman is a member of
the law firm of Shipman & Shipman,
12 South Plum Street, Troy, Ohio. His
son will be a freshman at Washington
and Lee next fall.

John H. Nelson is owner of Nelson
Coal and Wood Company, Danville,
Virginia, and also in the tobacco busi-
ness in Whiteville, North Carolina. He
has been married for 18 years and has
a daughter now a junior in high school.

1931

Arnold M. Vickers, Montgomery,
West Virginia, is engaged in the active
practice of law as a member of the firm

19

of Thompson and Vickers. Associated
with the firm, also, is Earl M. Vickers,
LL. B., 49. Arnold Vickers has served
as Mayor of Montgomery, West Vir-
ginia, and as a member of the House
of Delegates of West Virginia, from
Fayette County. He has also served
as a member of the State Senate of
West Virginia, from the Senatorial
District comprising Fayette and Green-
brier Counties. As a member of the
latter body he served two terms as
President of the Senate, which is a
position equivalent to that of Lieuten-
ant Governor in some other states. He
is married and has two children.

Henry McLane, Clay, West Vir-
ginia, is engaged in the active practice
of law at Clay, West Virginia. He
served in the armed forces in World
War II. He married Maribelle Smith
in 1932, and they have a son and a
daughter.

Manuel M. Weinberg is a member
of the law firm of Weinberg, Storm
and Glass, 1 East Church Street, Fred-
erick, Maryland. James L. Rimler, 731,
is a Certified Public Accountant with
the firm. Manuel is President of the
Frederick County Bar Association.

R. J. Thrift, Jr., is Judge of the 12th
Judicial District of West Virginia.
This circuit comprises Fayette and
Nicholas Counties. Heretofore, he has
served several terms as_ Assistant
_ Prosecuting Attorney of Fayette
County. He is married and has three
children.

1932

Albert G. Peery is practicing law
in Tazewell, Virginia. He has a grow-
ing family consisting of three sons
and a daughter, the most recent addi-
tion, a son, born May 21, 1950.

Herbert G. Dollahite, Jr., has been
appointed Assistant Manager of The
Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs,
West Virginia. He brings to his new
post a background of 18 years in the
hotel management profession. Prior to
his appointment at The Greenbrier, he
had been associated with The Everett,
Eagle River, Wisconsin; The Drake
and Churchill Hotels in Chicago; Po-
cono Manor Inn, Pennsylvania; The
Mayflower in Washington; The Royal
Hawaiian in Honolulu; and with the
British Colonial Hotel in Nassau,
Bahamas, this past winter. During
World War II he spent 40 months
overseas, including service in Africa,
Europe, China, Burma, and _ India,
after which he spent a year in the
Army of Occupation in Japan.

1933

William J. Brooks, Jr., has been
promoted to Assistant Zone Manager

20

in the Atlanta Zone, Pontiac Motor
Division, as of October 1, 1949. Change
of home address: 1284 Cumberland
Road, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia.

Loring M. Garrison is in the heat-
ing and plumbing business in Easley,
South Carolina. His son is now three
and a half years old, and his father is
planning to start him learning the
Split-T formation this fall, hoping that
he will “cut capers” on Wilson Field
some day in the future.

Bob Morris is coaching and teach-
ing at Ashland Junior College, Ash-
land, Kentucky. He has a 14-year-old
son, headed for Washington and Lee.

Al D. Symonds is Treasurer of
W. D. Allen Manufacturing Company,
566-570 West Lake Street, Chicago,
Illinois. He is married and has two
boys and a girl. Residence: 2424 Elm
Street, Evanston, Illinois.

Claude LaVarre, still with the Singer
Sewing Machine Company in Panama,
was a visitor in Lexington in May.
He was accompanied by his wife and
three attractive children, Claude, Jr.,
Harriette, and Frank.

1934

Everett E. Fisher is practicing law
with offices at 4040 Wiltshire Boule-
vard, Los Angeles 5, California. His
home is in San Fernando Valley,
which is a part of the city of Los
Angeles, and he has two daughters,
Sharon Gae, age six and a half, and
Brooke, age one and a half. Home ad-
dress: 6230 Cartwright Avenue, North
Hollywood, California.

Fred N. Sager has been studying at
the University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, since 1946 on an uncom-
pleted M.A. degree (Sociology and
Political Science). After two years of
course work and jockeying over Soci-
ology topics, he wrote his own book,
got married, and went into business
organization work in the expanding
town of Chapel Hill. Address: 156
East Rosemary Street, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina.

Robert B. Shively is in the automo-
bile business, handling Dodge and
Plymouth cars, under the firm name
of Shively Motors, Inc., Lincoln Way
West, Ext., Chambersburg, Pennsyl-
vania. In the fall of ’*49 he headed the
local Community Chest Drive when
they tackled a budget of $36,000 and
raised in excess of $42,000. He and his
wife, Dotty, and five-year-old daughter,
Christine, make a happy family.

Everett Tucker, Jr., 2110 North
Palm, Little Rock, Arkansas, is Man-
ager of the Industrial Department of
the Little Rock Chamber of Commerce,

   
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
 
   
  
   
    
  
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
 
  
  
   

and interested in the family far,
and ginning operations at Ty
Arkansas, which his father, D
Tucker, ’04, is looking after. He
two boys, one five and a half
old, and the second, five months

Ruge DeVan, still in the insur
business in Charleston, West Viro
has recently purchased a new hon
No. 8 Druid Place, Charleston,
Virginia.

Fred O. Funkhouser is Exe
Vice-President, Harrisonburg
and Thrift Corporation, Harrisonk
Virginia. He has two sons, seven
eight, both of whom have the sg
birthday, and hopes they will at
Washington and Lee.

Ford Shroder, Kent Hill, De
Vermont, is in the woodworking
supply business, and writes tha
and his wife are staunch Vermor
mainly for its unspoiled natural be
and for its less hurried manne}
living. They have two children,
10 years old, and Ann, seven.

John D. Battle, M. D., is contir
to do hematology—‘or blood dise
to you”—at the Cleveland Clinic,
clidd Avenue at East Ninety-
Street, Cleveland, Ohio. He was
cently elected a Fellow of the
ican College of Physicians.

Jesse C. Leigh, Jr., is Secret
Treasurer of Royal Crown Bo
Company, Hamlet, North Carolina.
has announced his candidacy for
missioner for Marks Creek Town
in the Democratic primary on
27. He is married and they have
children, two boys and two girls.

William B. Schildknecht has
with the M. J. Grove Lime Comp:
Lime Kiln, Maryland, for the pas
years. He was married to Har
Kennedy in June, 1937, and they
two fine daughters, aged ten and

William S. Stern is with the Willi
H. Morse Company, Food Brok
100 Hudson Street, New York 13,
York. After two spells in the Ar
he went with this company and §
he is now getting fat and fast approa
ing forty. 4

Alfred G. Dennison is Assist
General Sales Manager with the Ri
side Metal Company, Riverside,
Jersey. He says he is glad to rep
that he is still married to the sa
“oal” and has three daughter:
Patricia, 11; Susan, 3%; and Pam
1. “If this isn’t irony to a gradu
of Washington and Lee, I'll eat
hat.”

Fred L. Fox is Assistant Gene
Manager of Sales, Superior Steel ©

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI%

oration, Carnegie, Pennsylvania. His
amily consists of a wife; son, Freder-
‘ck Camden, 3 years old; and a daugh-
= Frances Elizabeth, born February
1) 1950. Address: 3031 Dwight Ave-
tsburgh 16, Pennsylvania.

t
Be, Pit
1935

Bill Schuhle is winding up the year
at the University of Minnesota, doing
aduate work on a Ph. D. in social
sciences. In the fall he will be back
at Adrian College in Adrian, Michigan.

Edwin T. Coulbourn is a member of
the law firm of Coulbourn and Mc-
Lemore, Suffolk, Virginia. He is serv-
ing as President of the Virginia School
Trustees’ Association for the current

year.

Edward L. Bond is in the advertising
business with Young and Rubicam,
Inc. 285 Madison Avenue, New York,
as an account executive. He was mar-
ried during the war and they now
have a little girl who will be a year
old in July. Home address: Davenport
Ridge Road, Stamford, Connecticut.

John D. Spohr, 3362 Ponemah Drive,
Fenton, Michigan, travels much of his
time for the Fleet-Wing Corporation,
a subsidiary of Standard Oil (Ohio),
covering the State of Michigan and a
small section of Ohio. He and _ his
wife and two children, a boy and a
girl, live on a beautiful lake the year
‘round.

Jim Woods is Traffic Manager of
Pennsylvania Glass Sand Corporation,
Lewistown, Pennsylvania, and on the
side, Vice-President of two radio com-
panies, the Lewistown Broadcasting
Company and the Altoona Broadcast-
ing Company of Altoona, Pennsyl-
vania. In 1937 he was married to Jane
Parker, a local girl, and they now have
three sons, James S., Jr., 10; Michael
W., 5; and Frank, 2%.

1936

Donald Clark, Jr., is Editor of Shop-
pers’ Guide, Columbia, South Carolina.

Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr., on June Ist,
1950, was elected to the Chairmanship
of the Junior Bar Section of the Bar
Association of the District of Colum-
bia. Address: Continental Building,
Washington, D.C.

Rev. E. C. Day is Pastor of the
Methodist Church in Woodstock, Vir-
ginia, with approximately 525 mem-
bers. He is married and has two boys,
One four years old and one 12.

Dr. Kenneth G. MacDonald has
Started practice of general surgery in
Charleston, West Virginia, where he
Sees many Washington and Lee men.
As of 1949 he is a Fellow of the Amer-

ican College of Surgeons and Diplo-
mate American Board of Surgery. Ad-
dress: 877 Chester Road, Charleston,
West Virginia.

Al Durante is Publicity Director for
J. Walter Thompson Co., advertising
agency. He is married and has two
sons “who look like guard material.”
Their ages now are three and a half
and one and a half. Address: 321 E.
43rd Street, New York City, N. Y.

John H. Renken, since leaving school
in 1936, has been married, had five
years in the Army, has a boy four years
old, and after his discharge from the
service, opened his own public ac-
counting office in Nyack, New York.
Address: 24 North Broadway, Nyack,
New York.

Martin Z. Kaplan, M. D., is a Pedia-
trician just starting practice in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, at 840 Barret Avenue.
He is married and has two daugh-
ters, ages three and five.

1937

Kent Forster, after receiving his
Ph. D. from the University of Penn-
sylvania in 1941, went to Penn State
where he is now an Associate Profes-
sor of European History. He has
spent the past two summers teaching
in Europe, and this summer has a
teaching assignment at Exeter, Eng-
land, in connection with a European
Seminar conducted for Americans at
Exeter University College. His two
daughters are now three and six years
old.

Parke S. Rouse, Jr., has been ap-
pointed Director of Public Relations
of the Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce and assumed his new duties
June 12. Graduating from Washington
and Lee in 1937 with the A. B. degree,
he entered the newspaper field as a
reporter on the Newport News Times-
Herald and subsequently was with the
Richmond Times-Dispatch. He was a
Naval Officer during World War II
and saw action in the invasions of
Sicily, Salerno, and Saipan, and con-
cluded his services as a member of the
staff of Admiral Chester Nimitz. Upon
his return from the service he was on
the editorial staff of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch and became its Sun-
day Editor in May, 1948. Mr. Rouse is
a winner of Virginia Press Association
Awards for both feature and editorial
writing. He is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and
Sigma Delta Chi, and of Phi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. Residence: 311
W. Franklin, Richmond 20, Virginia.

James H. Rice, Jr., is now Assistant
Vice-President of the Peoples National
Bank, Little Rock, Arkansas.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

1938

Frank Jones, Jr., is Branch Manager,
Owens-Illinois Glass Company, 1001
Central National Bank Building, Rich-
mond 19, Virginia.

George K. Meier, Jr., is practicing
law in Montclair, New Jersey, with
offices at 6 South Fullerton Avenue.
He is Legal Assistant Prosecutor in
Essex County, engaged primarily in
the trial of criminal cases, as far as
the duties of his office are concerned.
He married in 1942 and he and his
wife now have three sons.

J. George Ostertag has_ recently
been transferred by the Armstrong
Cork Company to Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania. He has worked as a sales-
man for this company since the war.
Address: 103 Harbeth Drive, Pitts-
burgh 9, Pennsylvania.

Dr. A. Compton Broders is with the
Scott & White Clinic, Temple, Texas.
He reports—“‘A_ grand place this;
about a fifty-five man group, aside
from around forty residents taking
graduate training, a good brand of
medicine practiced in congenial sur-
roundings; an opportunity to teach
and a pleasant place to live.” He mar-
ried Margaret Trusler and they now
have two sons, A. C., III, 2 years old,
and John Trusler, born April 16, 1950.
Both are registered and wear appro-
priate sweaters and expects to be on
the campus in the late ’60’s. Address:
1204 N. 4th Street, Temple, Texas.

1939

Sherwin B. French has been with
the Detroit Times for the past four
years as an Advertising Representa-
tive. He was married to Christine
Roberts in October, 1949, and they
are living at 4837 Cadieux Road,
Detroit, Michigan.

Frank O. Glenn, Jr., is farming on
the coast at the mouth of the Columbia
River, his main business being the
raising of cranberries, although they
still raise blueberries, rhododendrons
and English holly. He married Mar-
garet Myers, Sweetbriar, 39, and they
have three sons, Frank Oliver, III, age
7; Guy Myers, age 5; and Richard
Ross, age 1. Address: Cranguyma
Farms, Long Beach, Washington.

Oliver Hickel, Jr., is City Salesman
for Warner-Jenkinson Mfg. Co. of St.
Louis, Missouri, manufacturers of va-
nilla, flavoring extracts and certified
food colors, with salesmen in all 48
states. The home office is in St. Louis.
He was married in 1943 and they have
a son, Oliver, III, 5%, and a daughter,
Harriet Lyn, 20 months old. Home ad-
dress: 405 Tuxedo, Webster Groves 19,

Missouri.

21

John A. MacKenzie is a member of
the law firm of MacKenzie, Carr and
MacKenzie, New Kirn Building, Ports-
mouth, Virginia. He was married in
1949 to Elizabeth Nash Hudgins.

Joseph C. Murphy has become a
member of the law firm of Bowers and
Rinehart, now Bowers, Rinehart &
Murphy, as of July 1, 1950. Address:
1 West Main Street, Somerville, N. J.

Edgar L. Smith took over the office
of Prosecuting Attorney of Greenbrier
County, West Virginia, by appoint-
ment in March, due to the resignation
of Joe Holt, ’25. He is presently the
only nominee for the office to be voted
on in the fall, and will, of course, have
no opposition unless the Republicans
should select a ticket in convention.
Address: Lewisburg, West Virginia.

1940

George C. Neilsen is with duPont
at Arlington, New Jersey, where he
is a plastic engineer. He is married
and has two daughters, one 8 and one
5. Address: 132 Woodbridge Avenue,
Metuchen, New Jersey.

C. Harrison Hogan went into the
Navy in 1941 and after getting his
wings was stationed at Corpus Christi,
Atlanta, East Coast bases and, finally,
San Domingo. In 1942 he married
Ruth Paley (Sweetbriar, °40-’41).
They now have two boys, Robert
Kimball, 4%4, and Stephen Harrison,
3 months. He joined T. W. A. as soon
as he got out of the Navy and is still
with them. For 2% years he flew Los
Angeles, Kansas City and Chicago, and
has just finished 2% years on T.W.A.’s
international system from New York
to Shannon, Paris, Geneva, Rome,
Athens, Cairo, Lisbon, and Madrid.
He has to work about 10 days every
month and sometimes as many as 12.
Address: 24 Glen Lane, Levittown,
Long Island, New York.

W. S. (Bill) Metcalf, Jr., returned
to Washington and Lee after the war,
finished his B. A. and the Law School.
Since then he has been with the F. B. I,
first in Indianapolis and now in Chi-
cago. He married Jacquelin Mattox
from near Danville, Virginia, and they
now are proud of Michael, 3, and
Laura, 1%. Address: 88 Dogwood
Street, Park Forest, Chicago Heights,
Illinois.

John C. White was married to Mary
Nelson Freels, 1944; graduated at
Duke University in April 1946. They
have two children, John Clark, Jr.,
born September 1947, and Victoria Lee
(Vicki), born April 1950. He is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Blagg & White,
Chamber of Commerce _ Building,
Charleston, West Virginia, and has

22

recently purchased a home at 3906 Vir-
ginia Avenue, S. E., Charleston, W. Va.

1941

Louie A. Paterno is practicing law
in Charleston, West Virginia, with
offices in the Security Building. He is
married and they have two children,
Louie A., Jr., age 7, and Andrew
James, age 3.

Paul D. Brown has been appointed

Substitute Judge of the Arlington
County Court, Arlington, Virginia,
following his service as_ Assistant

Commonwealth’s Attorney since 1947.
His work will be principally connected
with juvenile and domestic relations
work of the court. Graduating cum
laude here in 1941, he received his
LL. B. degree in 1943. He is married
and lives at 4030 Washington Boule-
vard, Arlington, Virginia.

Pedro A. Rodriguez is head of the
Legal Division of the Public Service
Commission of Puerto Rico, but is
resigning this post at the end of June
to engage in the private practice of
law. He has now acquired a family,
consisting of a wife, a 7-year-old boy
and an 18-month-old girl.

1942

Green Rives, Jr., is completing his
fifth year with W. C. Nabors Company,
manufacturers of Nabors Trailers, in
Mansfield, Louisiana.

Gustave Essig is still a Group
Leader with the Monsanto Chemical
Company, located at the Mound Lab-
oratory in Miamisburg, Ohio. Address:
538 Superior Avenue, Dayton, Ohio.

1943

Carlton J. McLeod is the owner-
operator of a 600-acre diversified farm-
ing operation in the great Willamette
Valley, and says for the record that
he is married with a progeny record
of two children, one of either sex,
which he believes is par for the course.
Address: Route 1, Box 134, Brooks,
Oregon.

1944

George T. Wood has been trans-
ferred by the Graybar Electric Com-
pany from Atlanta, Georgia, to Tampa,
Florida, as Appliance Sales Manager,
and would like to have his classmates
visit him there. As an inducement, he
says he is conducting a one-man cam-
paign to impress Florida with the
merits of a good Kentucky mint julep.
Address: c/o Graybar, 416 Ellamae
Street, Tampa 1, Florida.

1945

G. Kingsley Noble is a graduate stu-
dent in Anthropology at Northwestern

   
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
   

University. Address: 166 Grand
nue, Englewood, New Jersey.

Arthur J. Hack, Jr., is a sales
for the International Silver Com
After his discharge from the Arp
1945, he worked as an airlines”
patcher for American Overseas
lines, prior to his present position,
married Fern Epner in 1948.
daughter, Cynthia, was born Ma
1950. Address: College Park Aj
ments, Camp Hill, Alabama.

1946

W. B. VanGelder graduated —
the degree of Bachelor of Architeg
from Cornell University in June,
is now on his way to Europe f
year at the University of Delft, D
Holland, under the Fulbright Sche
ship Program.

1947

Hal Chittum, after leaving Wash
ton and Lee, spent a year at Texz
and M. working on his master’s de
in geology. While at A. and M
met a girl from Florida who
student at the University of Te
lost interest in the M.S. degree,
married the girl. He has been wor
for the past two years for the Flor
Geological Survey, which is locate
Tallahassee. Address: 314 N.
Street, Marianna, Florida.

1948

William M. Harrelson is City
tor of Troy, Ohio, and the big vill
of Milton, Ohio, and, of course, pr
ticing law together with his city
village activities. In addition to
daughter, who was born in Lexing
while he was a student, he now hz
son, born May 12, 1950. Address: 10:
West Main Street, Troy, Ohio.

  

1949

Jim Magruder entered Union Tht
logical Seminary, Richmond, Virgit
to matriculate for his Bachelor
Divinity Degree in preparation for
ministry—a three-year course. D
this summer he is serving a Prest
terian Chapel, Front Royal, Virgin

(Continued on page 14)

 

You will notice that the format of tl
issue of the ALUMNI MAGAZI
has been changed from the two-colu
setup to three. This has been done
an effort to make the general appé
ance of the Magazine more attract!’
and more convenient for the read
and further changes may be @™
along these lines from time to tim

4 -
— FC

    

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN

 

— ;
In Memoriam

—

 

1881

Calbert Trent Seebert died July 30,
1950, at his home on Whistle Creek
i Rockbridge County, Virginia.

1899

Dr. Louis F. Wilson died on June
99. 1950. His home was in Greensburg,
Pennsylvania.

E 1906

Edward Victor Hardway died Janu-
ary 9, 1950. He was a member of the
law firm of Hardway, Harwell, Smith
& Gwin, Bankers Mortgage Building,
Houston 2, Texas.

1908

Luther Gilham Scott, A.B., ’08;
LL. B., ’11, died May 23 in Bluefield,
West Virginia, of a heart attack. Mr.
Scott was City Attorney of Bluefield
for 14 years.

1912

Walter Roscoe Burnett died August
9 1949. His home was in Knoxville,
Tennessee.

Lawrence E. Lindsay died of a heart
attack on February 27, 1950. His home
was in Roanoke, Virginia.

1915

Joseph W. Milner, LL. B., ’15, died
April 16, 1950, at his home in Gulfport,
Mississippi. Mr. Milner served as
Mayor of Gulfport for 24 years, retir-
ing from this office in 1949, and as
President of Gulfport Military Acad-
emy since 1934.

Dr. Walter C. Preston died June 14,
1950. Dr. Preston was an outstanding
authority on chemical research for the
Proctor and Gamble Company. His
home was in Cincinnati, Ohio.

1916

Samuel Lee Robertson died May 15,
1950. His home was in Chicago, III.

1922

Ralph G. Fitch died in New Orleans,
Louisiana, on June 23, 1950.

Joseph Lee Silverstein died July 6,
1950. He was President of the Midwest
Steel Corporation of Charleston, West
Virginia, and a member of the law
firm of Silverstein, Angel, Barringer
and Grimm. His home was at 1618
‘anawha Boulevard, Charleston, West

Irginia,

1928

Edward H. Miller, former special
4Ssistant to the Attorney General and,
‘ince last February, associated in the

practice of law with Clark M. Clifford,
died June 22, 1950, in Washington,
0 Me mt

1930

George Such Pearse died April 26,
1950. His home was in Metuchen,
New Jersey.

1939

Dr. Howard M. Schriver, of Cincin-

nati, Ohio, died June 11, 1950.

 

Births

1932

Mr. and Mrs. Kemper Jennings are
the parents of a son, Scot, born May 9,
1950. They also have a daughter, Tracy,
9, and another son, Melville, 3.

 

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Harold J. Sullivan
are the parents of a son, Harold Joseph
Sullivan, Jr., born May 6, 1950.

Mr. and Mrs. Collas Grant Harris
are the parents of a son, Collas Grant,
Jr., born July 11, 1950.

1938
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Hillier are
the parents of a second son, Herbert
Spencer, born July 8, 1950; son David
Richard was born March 17, 1948.

1939

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Fishel are
the parents of a daughter, Elizabeth
R., born May 6, 1950.

Mr. and Mrs. Homer W. Weidmann
are the parents of a daughter, Carolyn
Jane, born June 29, 1950. They have a

son, Eric Richard Weidmann, age
1% years.

1942
Mr. and Mrs. Charles P. Didier are
the parents of a son, Jo Desha, born
July 30, 1950. They have two other
children, son, D’Arcy, and daughter,
Angelica.

Mr. and Mrs. William M. Atlee are
the parents of a daughter, Lynne
Pierce, born May 15, 1950.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Kaylor are the
parents of a son, Omer Thomas, III,
born March 11, 1950.

1948
Mr. and Mrs. James Frederick Kay

are the parents of a son, James Fred-
erick Kay, Jr., born June 20, 1950.

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Fox are the
parents of twins, a_ girl, Claudia
Mildred, and a boy, David Hill Vaugh-
ter, born May 4, 1950.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

1949

Mr. and Mrs. Leigh Carter are the
parents of a daughter, Mary Giles
Carter, born May 20, 1950.

 

Marriages

 

1940

Charles Lee Green was married to
Julia Desha Graves on June 24, 1950,
in Lexington, Virginia.

1942

Edward Malcolm Korry was married
to Marian Patricia McCarthy on July

-—

7, 1950, in Syracuse, New York.

1943

Jeams Lynwood King and Lucy
Jean Newton were married in Wash-
ington, D.C., June 24, 1950. They are
now at home at 2445 15th Street, N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

1944

Lloyd Jackson Lanich, Jr., was mar-
ried to Nancy Louise Casey on June
24, 1950, South Hills Country Club,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

1945

Guy Edwin Yaste, Jr., was married
to Wynne Louise Brown on May 20,
1950.

1946

John Henry Cheatham, Jr., was
married to Leila Gilliam Barnes on
June 10, 1950, in Griffin, Georgia.

Ambrose W. Givens was married to
Lida Clay Ingels on April 8, 1950,
in Lexington, Kentucky. Address:
c/o Gary Tobacco Company, Izmir,
Turkey.

1947

Hugh Etherton Reams was married
to Louise Cook Stacy on June 17, 1950,
in Lumberton, North Carolina.

Robert Stedman Curl was married
to Glenna Wright Robertson on June
30, 1950, in Norfolk, Virginia.

1948

John Poague Stewart, II, was mar-
ried to Milly Ann Million on July 1,
1950, in Wichita Falls, Texas.

Gordon Albert Fox was married to
Tommy Lou Bronough on June 15,
1950, in Belpre, Ohio.

1949

Edward McGehee Thompson was
married to Lucy Margaret Jones on
June 13, 1950, in Montgomery, Ala.

 

 

 

 

 

a 7
mes
7 1.7. _
. a a E ¢
M 4 /

a

 

Now Available

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

WITH BICENTENNIAL BACK STAMP
Colors: Blue and Mulberry

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $18.00 per set
Express Charges Collect

tii ty
—

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

