 

 

 

 

December, 1942

ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS DELIVERY

 

a

Tendlose fo for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 pet plate, payable in advance. Plates avill be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

Nore; Complete sets are available at this date Mulberry and Green only.
Single plates in all colors are in stock at this date except as follows Mulberry, scenes
2, and 4; Green, scenes 2 ana 4; Blue, scenes |, + 4, and 8.

One Complete set of eight plates Cy (or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS

1. Washington College... es & Carnegie LAbtay ae ee
a ice CRepey [4 6. Doremus Gymnasium ee N
3. Lee-Jackson Vide. be ror ee 7 Pucker Hall eee [24
4A. Campus Walk ee Q Washington College, 1897... [4

Check color choice: [ | Blue [ ] Green Ly Mulberry
Ship plates to:

eh ee ee

ee ee a

ee ae ee

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries tO:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

Se
Appalachian
G.

w. Summerson, Bristol, Va.
ansas
eomeeal H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

anta, Georgia a4
ane ’M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland
Latimer G. Young, 2906 Guilford Avenue

irmingham, Alabama
pe Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue

Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia a

John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

Coa Avery.
Chicago, Illinois

w. R. Allen, 1385 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio

E. Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

Carl V. Harris
Cumberland Valley

Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’l] Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Memphis, Tennessee

L. V. Butler, 60 S. Front Street
New York, New York

Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Roanoke, Virginia
. H, Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State
George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.
Charles F. Suter, Union Trust Building
Waynesboro, Virginia
Harry A. Lough

 

Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Judge Carleton Jewett, 1500 West 41st St.

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XVIII DECEMBER, 1942 No. 2
Baer a a Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
i omeging: Fitness ho es Mary Barclay

Paut B. (JERRY) SHAMHART, JrR., 1945

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

POMOC i Joun C. Morrison, 1925
Vice-President...... RANDOLPH G. WHITTLE, 1924
SD COVCIET sc ue Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917
Tyeasiyer Dr. REID Waite, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
R. G. WuirTtte, 1924
RoceEr Bear, 1914
Joun L..Crist; 1913

RicHaArpD T. Epwarps, 1933

Contents for December, 1942

PAGE

‘Transition and Permanence (The President’s Page).... 3

The Army School for Special Service af. 4
Cis Couiment 0 5
Notes Abuot Alumni in Servite sn ee 6
ACditiOns. t6ckist Of Auta in Services 2 a ;
Summary of 1942 Pootball Season... 309.6... 11
Te NI CMmOC ie ee {5
Wrattioges an athe. ee 16

Cee ee a ae 17

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Transition and Permanence

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

s | write these words, in the crisp autumnal beauty
A of the fading November, I seem to see an impene-
trable curtain of obscurity fall across the future of Wash-
ington and Lee, as of all colleges for men. Let us hope

the curtain is down but for a moment.
x ok x

Not for a minute do I imply that our
regular academic work is faltering; and I
hope my words will not be taken to mean
that we are failing to seek the best adjust-
ments in the way of national service.

On this very day we are signing the
contracts with the United States Govern-
ment by which the Army School for
Special Service is to be located on our
campus, on a rental basis, to train the con-
tinuing flood of officers for duties in con-
nection with morale work. The alumni have already been
advised of this development.

eR

It seems probable that the Government will send to
the regular colleges certain groups of students, actually
enlisted men. Presumably these men will come in fixed
units, perhaps on an active status, to pursue for a limited
time certain subjects within a restricted curriculum. ‘This
idea is excellent ; if it should be adopted, the Government
for its present need will have the benefit of better trained
men, and the men will have made a long stride toward
a completed education after the war.

ec eR

It may come to pass that beyond these fixed units our
enrollment will consist of very, very few boys. We hope—
and indeed we expect—to keep the institution open always

for the regular students, however few.

 

But what I should like for the alumni to bear in mind
is that in this period, when many institutions, like many
ancient memorials of scrap, are being melted for fusion
into new implements, Washington and Lee must be

sustained. Come what may, your Alma

Mater must always be sustained.
ee

Of course, when I say sustained I am
thinking of much more than the physical
or even the organic life of the institution.
Naturally our pay rolls must be met and
our property must be kept in good order.
But there is something more important
in the destiny of Washington and Lee
than these obvious things. Continuity, if
it be the type that means the steady ac-
cumulation of enriching traditions and
strengthening compulsions, will be of 1m-
mense significance to the new world. That world, like any
other land of our nobler dreams, must draw heavily on

all fine things that we have already achieved.
oes ok

The independence of your Alma Mater will perhaps
have a new connotation and a new worthiness. There must
be little question that the very processes of total war tend
to draw the units of society into the fixed pattern of
Governmental authorities. The institution that 1s devoted
to the best principles but is not controlled by the 1mmedi-
ate politics can find an even larger opportunity for service.

OK

I hope the sentiments of pure and joyful memories
will suggest to the alumni enlarged support for Alma
Mater during these critical days. I hope that these senti-
ments may be enforced by a faith which looks toward

the future as confidently as the heart looks backward

re 634 fm -

joyfully.

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Army School for Special Service

By Ax Darsy, 1943

ost emphatically Washington and Lee will continue
M its regular work. We are expecting to maintain a
student body of reasonable size and we are prepared to
offer the essential work of our standard curriculum in
addition to specialized courses previously announced for
the emergency.”

With these words, at a University assembly in Lee
Chapel, November 14, President Francis P. Gaines em-
phasized that Washington and Lee will continue its regu-
lar functions when the Army School for Special Service
is transferred here December 6, from Fort George Meade,
Maryland.

Transfer of the Special Service school is another
considerable contribution by Washington and Lee to the
war effort. Already at least 1300 of our alumni are in
the armed services. Almost two-thirds of the present
student body of 650 are in the various reserve units, and
the curriculum of the school has been revamped to offer
courses pertinent to the war effort.

The new Army school, which was organized last
February, has rented certain facilities from the Univer-
sity. Included in the rental agreement are the dormitory,
dining hall and Tucker Hall. The new school also will
have the right to use Doremus gymnasium from 1 p.m.
until 4:45 p.m., and the use of one of the athletic fields in
a program “that will not impair the services of these
facilities for our own use,” according to Dr. Gaines. The
agreement, he said, also included “certain minor conces-
sions such as the use of the Student Union basement as
a medical center:

Colonel Leon David, commandant of the Fort Meade
school, will be in charge here. Under his jurisdiction will
be between 200 and 500 commissioned officers. At first
there will be between 200 and 300 officers here, but
eventually as many as 500 officers will be accommodated
on the Washington and Lee campus.

This new addition to the Washington and Lee cam-
pus 1s operated for special service officers of combat
units. These officers will be trained for work they will be
called upon to do in the field. The instruction periods,
which last four to six weeks for each group of officers,
will feature methods of directing athletics, recreation,
and other aids to welfare and morale of combat units.

The school will bring its own faculty of 21 members
from Fort Meade, and gradually will increase it to as

many as 50 men. No member of the Washington and Lee
faculty will be called upon to instruct in the Army school.
The school will keep all records, supervise discipline, and
provide mess and recreational requirements for student
officers.

Student personnel in the new school is selected for
leadership from all sections of the country. Averaging 30
years in age, these students will all have at least the rank
of second lieutenant. Glenn Miller, the former orchestra
leader, is finishing his instruction at Fort Meade now.

Army officers and civilian personnel, who will serve
as instructors, are men of prominence in their fields.
Families of the instructors will be with them and will
reside in Lexington.

lor its classrooms the Army school will have exclusive
use of Tucker Hall and also will use four other class-
rooms, probably in adjoining Robinson Hall.

The Law School, which formerly used Tucker Hall
for its classes, will conduct its classes in seminar rooms
in the McCormick Library. Army reference books will be
placed in what is now the propaganda room of the main
library.

Adequate rooming facilities for 143 of the freshmen
who are vacating the dormitory by November 28 are
available in fraternity houses, which are not filled because
of the reduced enrollment of the University. Rooming
facilities for the remaining freshmen are being found in
private homes.

The University dining hall will probably be converted
into a cafeteria with the addition of much government
equipment. Some of the 60 enlisted men who will be
brought from Fort Meade to carry out routine functions
will help with the operation of the cafeteria.

An analogy to the School of Special Service may be
drawn from the School of Government now located at the
University of Virginia. There, Army officers are learn-
ing to govern occupied countries.

The Army school will maintain and promote its own
social functions, athletic events and newspaper. Prob-
lems arising between the two schools will be ironed out
by conference and mutual agreement.

Concerning the new school, Lee Kenna, president of
the student body, said: “I feel confident that the student
body will find genuine pleasure in extending its hospital-

(Continued on page 13)

foe

 

 

The Alumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

Campus Comment

By Jo& Extis, 1943

tMost a year has passed since Pearl Harbor, and
Basing that year student life at Washington and Lee
has made many changes to adjust itself to the tempo of
wartime conditions. But during this time all of those little
things which have been such
an important part ot: Wash-
ington and Lee—the foot-
ball games, the dances, the
politics, the activities—have
been carried on, though in
a greatly different fashion.

The students after some
understandable delays have
at last realized the signifi-
cant part which they are be-
ing called upon to play in
the war effort, and today
before anything is under-
taken on the campus it is
tested to see 1f it meets re-
quirements of Washington
and Lee's “All Out tor the
War Effort” program.

The big news of the fall
session, of course, was the
announcement two weeks
ago that the Army School
of Special Service would
transfer from Fort Meade
to Washington and Lee on
December 6. This week, as
the nearly 300 freshmen be-
gan their exodus from the dorms to fraternity houses
and rooming houses around town, as the law library was
moved to Payne Hall, and as more and more khaki-clad
officers appeared in Lexington to make preparations for
the coming of the first class of trainees, the full sig-
nificance of the important part that Washington and Lee
would occupy for the duration was appreciated by the
students.

On the weekend of November 20-21—when the Big
Blue Generals were closing the season with their brilliant
but losing game with Clark Shaughnessy’s Maryland
- Terps—the students and their 319 dates were celebrating
With the 1942 edition of Opening Dances. As president

 

Looking thrrough the freshman archway toward
McCormick Library

of the Cotillion Club, Earl Alverson and Miss Jane
Harris, both of Decatur, Alabama, led the Saturday night
formal. Holly Smith, class president, led the Sopho-
more Prom. Music for the two-day set was supplied by
the V.M.I. Commanders
and Bobby Byrne’s orches-
tra.

The first week in Novem-
ber was climaxed by the
Executive Committee’s an-
nouncement that a total of
$6,050.82 had been saved
students by its wartime eco-
Part “of
these savings were direct re-

nomic program.

funds on Campus Tax sub-
scriptions ~(1.50° in. war
stamps to each of the 546
subscribers ) and the rest of
the savings were effected
through cuts in club initia-
tion fees, dance set sub-
scriptions and the abolition
of honorary society keys
and dance figure favors for
the duration.

But in many respects the
first three months of the
session have been typically
“college.”’ Greater participa-
tion than ever before was
noted 1n intramural athletics.
The intramural football season was one of the best ever,
largely due to the use of the new Alumni Field. The
Pik As finally came through to win the fraternity title in
a close game with the Delts.

During the week preceding the game with the Wa-
hoos, Sigma Delta Chi, journalism fraternity, spon-
sored a “Beat the Wahoos” program which drummed
student spirit to the highest point in recent years. How-
ever, this was not the year for Jerry Holstein’s fightin’
boys to take the Cavaliers, and the game went to Vir-
einia 34 to 7. 7

Scheduled for production before the beginning of

(Continued on page 14)

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notes About Alumni in Service

Emory Morris ABER-
NATHY, 725, and CHARLES
Durry Burorp, ‘26, are
both serving as field super-
visors for the American
Red Cross with our armed
forces. Mr. Buford 1s sta-
tioned in London, Eng-
land, and has worked at
Fort Moultrie, South
Carolina, and the Jackson
Air Base in Mississippi.
Mr. Abernathy has been at
Camp Lee, Virginia, since
March, 1941, having serv-
ed previously at Fort
Bragg, North Carolina.

 

Tue ALUMNI OFFICE ts pleased to announce
that a new service is being established to enable
alumni to keep in touch with friends and classmates
in the armed forces of the nation. This office, acting
on a suggestion made by an alumnus, has secured
permission from the Office of Censorship to for-
ward mail to alumni in service.

As of the date of publication of this issue, we
have 1307 alumni listed in the armed forces. In
almost every case, we have either a permanent for-
warding address or the current service address for

these men. Any letter addressed to alumni in service

in care of this office's Servicemen’s File will be for-
warded. Although this office cannot assume respon-
sibility. for this mail because of the highly imper-
manent nature of some of these addresses, we will
make every effort to see that such mail reaches the

Guadalcanal Island in the
South Pacific war. area,
and has been removed to a
station hospital out of the
zone of immediate combat.
Lieut. Berghaus 1s report-
ed to be in good condition.

br CLAupE (DUNN
‘41, ranked second in his
class of 2,000 when he was
eraduated from the Army
Air Force officers candi-
date:-school in Mian
Beach, Florida, September
16. During his training
period, he was elected
commander of Wing I by

Sixsiexineton men, addressee.

four of them Washington

 

his mates in the school. He
is now stationed at Daniel

 

 

and Lee alumni, held their

own Homecoming Day in the south Pacific area on Oc-
tober 11, a letter recently received from one of them 1n-
forms us. The meeting, which took place at an undis-
closed point, was attended by Captain Reid White, ‘19,
U.S.A MC. Lieut: Edear Shannon, 739, U.N; Eaeut.
Willard King, ’38, U.S.N.A.C.; Lieut. William Drewry,
28 -U.S,N.. General: Lloyd” Leech’ and: Lieut. Robert
Steidtmann of the Marine Corps rounded out the party.

 

Eric M. James, ’39, is on active duty as a first lieu-
tenant in the Princess Anne Dragoon Guards of the
British Imperial Army. In school in Wales at the out-
break of the war, he enlisted as a private in September,
1941, and was commissioned this fall.

 

RatpH Davip KircHer, '39, is now serving as a lieu-
tenant with the United States Army Corps of Engineers
in Australia. He enlisted in the Army in Melbourne, on
March 12 of this year, after a narrow escape from the
Japanese invasion of Batavia, Java.

 

Lieut. Bavarp S. Bercuaus, U.S.M.C., class of ’41,
received a severe shrapnel wound during the fighting on

Field in Augusta, Georgia,
where he is commanding officer in charge of a training
squadron.

 

Ensicn Henry Tuomas Martin, 741, reported
missing by the Navy after the sinking of the U.S.S.
Quincy, has been officially reported safe, it was learned
recently.

 

WILLIAM BrApForp Dunson, ’42, ranked first in a
large class at the U. S. Navy Pre-Flight School in Athens,
Georgia, when he was graduated from there recently.
Following his graduation from basic military, academic
and physical training at Athens, he was transferred to
the Naval Reserve Air Base at Dallas, Texas, for primary
flight training. Brad was a member of Phi Delta Theta
while in school, and was president of the 1942 Finals
dance set.

 

LIEUTENANT T'HoMmAS BROOKES SKINNER, 737, Army
Air Force is one of the first men in the country to gradu-
ate as a glider pilot. He graduated last month before
schedule from the South Plains Army Flying School in
Lubbock, Texas. On December 3, Lieut. Skinner broad-
cast from the school, with Dorothy Lamour, on Bing
Crosby’s Kraft Music Hall over a national NBC hook-up.

[ 6 |

 

 

The ahi Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of November 28, 1942

Nore: This list of 306 alumni in service coniprises
the third published addition to the list of Washington
and Lee men in service published in the May, 1942, Mag-
azine. Washington and Lee now has 1307 men listed in
the armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
ave refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or other address from which mail will be for-
warded, special activities, type of service or training, etc.

we |

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as pos-
sible with our alumni in this time of stress, and any 1n-
formation concerning alumni in service will be greatly
appreciated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. These symbols, and their meaning, are
as follows:

A, Army of the United States, AAF, Army Air
Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air Corps;
MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; MM, Merchant
Marine; RAF, Royal Air Force; FAA, Fleet Air Arm;
RCAF, Royal Canadian Air Force; RCEC, Royal Ca-
nadian Engineering Corps; APR, Army of Puerto Rico;
BIA, British Imperial Army. An asterisk(*) following
the above symbols indicates an officer. Asterisks (*) to
the left of the name indicate the following : *—unofficial-
ly reported missing ; **—officially reported missing ;***—
officially reported prisoner of war; ****—officially re-
ported killed or deceased.

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Adamson, V iicent Cassel: 30) iiacaue steels ec une ouiias N*
Altmayer, Jay POOR, (80 cae ae ee nk ea N*
Atmar, Lyne Moerigs (S/o ec ee ee AAF
Attia, Nighoms Pred. 2. Ce ou ee Gebnes AAF*
Avis, Samuel Brashear, 724 iis th seceeeasaes cashes A*
Hagbey,: Wiiani Oy 6) 36 ae a a iaiawe a a etnies N*
Baker, Kirk Meek 3) ge cha Re ei ee CG*
Baltuchy Prev pert. a7 ii lat ee as sua A
Darecer; 1GHW Wy ne, Oa wae a ha ts ee A*
Barker,” Withaal: SHettlet es 33005 Gece aie wentce ees A
Barner, Vise fi eae, 1G asics Go ow oe N*
Barrett, Brmest Cliftord, fry (a/uacncasaeeee aia N*
Bate, Dro Abemader, [ti Oia tie ees pes caeienges svosienss A*
Bates, ‘Deetee Morse; 30... erat A

Name and Class Branch of Service

Paver, Theodore face (aes: 30.5. csicca cae AAF*
Daxter, Conn Pome. Se ee MC
healie. Alvin Thornton, Ag 4 a MC
Penning, [oon Mortinice, ti 4a ae CG
PGE y Gis atyiett 28. oa ek ae A
miehos. Ran Jorn it CoO ee ee A*
Bigekiedee. © notion, Phil C8 ec N*
Bledsoe, Batten MeCruin: 34.0. MC
Bowman, Wim Fo ecClgin, (S39... AAF
town, Charles Pratt, G6 he A ee ee AAF*
Brown Prestag Rice: 42 i ee ee MC
Prawn. Walia amon.) GU a ee AAF
Puree, jerry Alle it i S60 3k ye N*
Birt, james Marshal Je 2a as a a, N*
PC ey eh a a A®
(Canitiack, fer ANCrewse. AL. rca eee ea A
Carson Kev Pempert Venable “lS ec ak AA
Carter, fann- tie wrerse 27 5 ee A*
CUSMI ai, 100i k atc fh 31s nce ommien hk ieee A*
Cavaliaa, ou Ropert, 2 ee kia ke N
Clore. Wolhat Cooper, Oi cae ee A
Clarke, © haties Penta. 164 ge. acl occininge ada A
Ciseue, Ponies fial 3e ee N*
Clay, sidney. Watheld, “Sl. see eis eh ree AAF*
Coates; New iteletive Tt) 30.5,. a ee N*
Coe, Walter wine, 3) a a ae A
Collins; Tematims® Royce. So. ati a a A
Comins, Wale: Tinntere jr 3600 oe ea i N
lonirer, “VV 10th Wy a aCe, (2 A N
Copper; John McAdlister.25..0 oad. ok a ae N
Cottmoiam, Phones Bare (36 ee A
Coullms: leuis: Roberdeaty ire 4375 eee ee A
Craddock, Dr. George Barksdale, 730...) fous. i A*
Cross; Charlies Brinson Vr 90.3 sui wuts, Bo a N*
Crees. Diverett IN eISOn, ae. ig i ee N
Crowell Revs tecorec Todd, 93/60 isha ce AAF*
Ctts,; ‘Theodore Morrison 33.0 ie a i N*
Davies Onn Wallace. 3054 eo es A*
Davis james Water 44, coe ie Se A
Davis, Price Morea. Ih Boe ii ets AAF*
Day, Dr Tiayvward rans, 29 ea a AAF*
TPE ast a VEO, Be ecco wae ane AAF
Dention, Boester VV alee): ft O38. Ad bmn N*
TOPAREBG, Perr, A eee a svacenccscstuscinui es eu os da A*
hey ane Muoen Ciavooirn, ih. 43.20.03 oe, NAC
Disbrow, Hamilton Grinnell, Jr. 40. vn ee N
TOP A te ee i ee A
Damie? Deni Weta iii a ee el ee N*
Donaldson, Theodore, Ai, oasis eeepc ceeade ee Sea ee N*
Doutam, Wined Bensiamim, - 32.00.06 A
Dotietas, Waihi Panriee, 41a, 6 ss tata eit cee A
Drake BK nimert- dyson. 4b iio week ee AAF
Drake econ LUrinicc Bee ee, N
Dunsons William Bradiord, "As ees NAC
Poatiey, Vitel DapCoer 38.6 tee ee cea, MC
Eddy; Righutdk ures, Boies CG
Paglish: Tempe jacksues i, ea 65s N*
Peverett Willie Mead [20 ee a ae A*
Barber, Alon 2avic. 90 a coc Site nee A

bf

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Farrar, Frederic Breakspeare, °41..............ccssscsseeseresessesssereeseed A\*
BT, AEE EIEN SO cic ve deca casvdctensodedsestbcodenscpesostapccocsccndets A*
Finley, James Douglas, II, ’35............cccccccscccssssecesrcesessesoseees CG*
Fleming, Thomas Olin, 742.............ccccccssscsescrsssssseessesssssecsssssscsseed A
Ford, Kiah: Thornton, Jr., ’41......ccsccccccssscsesossncccpsccccccvscccesesersesecoed A
Forrester, Alexander McHattie, 732.........ccccccccccccccsssssssscceeeeeeored A*
Forsyth, Malcolm Oliphant, 734............ccccscssseseerresesseeseseed AAF*
Preeti te ORME CAST WTIGE, 927. Hien hcctin iecdencesiececesesdegnosevopedsond A
Sed er, > A. sta 52, cosas Mn Tweh tn dtnshotnbesaciacadsnent¥nosecoensiactond A
Peer eeeee | Peeat Fe VOTE S7 cicclseeatan tees scndadacscencccesesctssdbnpccsecnead A*
Sorat SEA G.. ESCHRTTIG, © SO stoi cile-ccutsecdesisccdhessec vedoousesdeeec¥iged AAF
Penh EN eie UL) FIMINE® OO cdandaivicscnetdhschpuprivbevdvceseccccsepnosscceid AAF
Friend, John Edward, ’35.............scccccccccccsccsccscessessssssseecssssoed AAF
Fristoe, James Poor, 740..........ccccccccsccccsesscccnscsssvsessecccccsssscersscsseseed A*
PNIPOREEE UY SELSG TIS A UO ROND UMBC M hc cncdcdscocstevecscved sesessqrtdvetednggacsenaeecd \*
Gary, Robert William, Jr., 741................ccccccssssssseseeesseseseeseseed AAF
eee ey USOOEIS TOs A crcaiviieksnsvcsdsnvescnecesensessbandosectaegosessed AAF
Georme, Harry, Ji. 5: "SO. .iccccssscicgssesccvcsssecsccsccnsescccosisctdcovsseencovessosees N*
Gerber, William Winton, 736.............scccccsseccsccccscccsccsesescsecccescees A*
Gibson, John Wilson, Jr, ’38...............cccccsccccccccsscsscesesscssccsssseoeed A
SoA MR COUOEE BADPRONE, "Uc. :iiicccticcch snd budiadoncevespnnckdecdbabsepselgepaned A*
I FT ONE Bin, 9Z21 Sssinceavidsosvconcnpsncogtvacas@adsepvoceicdosesseoncdennssqoubeorsyieg N*
Goodpaster, Sherman, Jr, ’37..........cc.c.sccccesccssosesscsosssessensoned AAF
Pe bk! DA SS OR BEIT. “Ce iok .sccctccedbscoccdscsnnscivesvootescckghsteebesy coushictitisasbd A
Oe: CGRICS: FAMIOY TIED oveses assncvecnsdvibedecesctnupsveshine ovechvensumael AAF*
MVSPOON: PAUL HAMIIC, JEG 74S ccciccivnsscvucessiagnossescibaovecvctoscssdsuigeesanted A

 

&

 

Pilot Officer Stanley Parker McGee, Jr., °41, Royal
Canadian Air Force, is serving with the RCAF at Trenton,
Ontario, Canada. He was recently commissioned and ex-
pects active duty in the immediate future.

Name and Class Branch of Service

CE BEE: FL WATD, GF cccccddes ven esucgnedosessanagipeocsipséndecccndosscenpeied A*
GE TS. WV TINS, "SA iicicdicipcccnsccccsccsosccsendocceedaptpocsosaniesenad AAF
Greene, Herman 1,60) '36...ccccccoccscscccscssccssscoccesccccocscccccsocvocsesceseeseed A
Grubbs, Joseph Henry, Jr, 42.......:ccccssseccercsssesseseeeessessesssseeeens N*
Gwin, Lucien Clouston, Jr, ’30............sccccsssccessssscecessssssssessesens N
**** Hancock, David Wright, ’38................ccccccccccssssessssseesseed AAF
Harrelson, William McAllum, 742..............cccccrcscccrcscsccceeessssees A
Barris, ‘Colles Grant, So .iss..0.cc.cccccccccccccscesccsccccessonsssccccssscceesed AAF*
Harris, Roderick Edward, °35.....c.sccscccccccccssccscccseccssssessesseescced AAF
Harrison, George Blakeley, 742..........:::ccscssesesseeeeeeeeesereeseeeeeees N*
Harrod, Walter DeForrest, 743............cccccccsccssssccssccccscscccccccccssssood A
Harvey, Ralph Osborn, Jr., ’33..........c.ccccccccccscsscssrsccessceserseed AAF*
Harwood, Garland Melvin, Jr., °42..............scccccccsscceeeeseesssessssoeeed A
Hawkins, Samuel Russell, °42...............ccccssccsccscccccccsevesecsescesesessoseed A
Hawley, Dr. George M. B., IT, ’36.................cccccessscseeeeeeeceeoorees N*
Hearon, Fanning Miles, ’27.......cccccccccsscssccosssssssccscccscccescocssesssvocens N*
Hewson, Gilbert Ward, 732........cc.ccssccccsscssssscccssccccscesssccressesseseeses N
Hill, Edward Caldwell, °30.......c.0:..0.ccccccccccocosssscoccccccsccssesescsoeseed A*
Hoadley, Robert Keene, 732.............cccccceessessessssseeeseessssreeeeeeed A*
FLOOD DOR \ Fe EL OU castelinesdedccnscscadocesschdnvccssstnpantodedevide cess MC*
Hodges, LeRoy, Jr, '35....ccccccccccssscsscoccccccescsscccsseserecssssssssescconscees N*
Hogan, John Carroll, Jr., '43............cccscsssccessrsssrecceescsssscessessseed A
Hogan, William Roy, Jr., ’39...........ccccccccssscsssssssscccesssssssesssred AAF*
Pie, “CRIROS Bik Olas assckicuckerissscbepsvsesscncssceeeDpbpncubstedevetveecsncseetl A
Holland, Dr. Jolin Gill, ’2B............ccccccocccocsssccsasseocessocccesserssressenveed A*
Holt; Rep eet a ASS 74a sein ci sce sssiscvcs svckccvobscstihvenquadatcosesoseceed AAF
Hoofstitler, William Bailey, °36............cccccccccssccccssssessessesssored AAF
Hoover, John Clay, °22........cccscoscccccsccsscsccsccssscoencesscecsssssessesssscsecsed A
Houston, John Alexander, 733.........ccccccsssceressrerceeeeeesseseeeed AAF*
EV cowed, Wy etd RIC UAPOGON,  Soaiiticccccccensvcenccevescssectnctesoncupedosecons N
Hoyt, John Southgate Yeaton, '38..........cccccsseeeeeeneseeereseseeeed A
Hubbard, Joseph Warren, 743...........ccccssceeseesreccessssreeesesseseed AAF
Hucherson, Dr. Denman Carter, 731...i...........sscccccssccsesssceeseeed A*
Hudgins, Francis Gordon, 726..........ccsccscsssssesesesssesserseressseeeed A*
Hudgins, Wallace Nalle, '34...............scsccsssescceessessssssssecesceees N*
Hudson; Dr. Isaac Frederick, °32.........:0.....:..ccccsccccccccsssceseees MC*
Hyer, Dr. Yeadon Mazyck, ’29.........cccccsscsssssesssscssensessesseesesseeeed A*
James, Eric Morris, ’39..........ccscccccssssesccsrsesssecsssscssssssssssssseees BIA*
Jenkins, John Michael, Jr., '37........:csscsssscesserssseeseseereesseeeeseed AAF
Jennings, Earle Willis, Jr., '37.........cccsccssceccscssssesssssssssessceseoeed \AF
Jennings, Walter Kemper, ’32...........scsscccscsssseessseesseesesssseesseeeed A
Johnson, Graham Hoadley, °37......:ccccsccccseeeneeseeseeeeesseseeeeseeeees A
Johnson, Jesse Mabrey, 722.........cccccssescsseresssrssssessesesessesseseneed A*
Johnson, Zebulon Vance, Jr., '32.......cscscssesssesresescseessesssseessoed A
THEO, WOMAN, AM os siis ch cecers conga scestigsbcreecsensscoe Mipebionnsess eos t RM
Johnstone, James DeCatur, II], 44.0.0... ccceceeceeeeneeeteeeeteseeeeeeed A*
Junkin, Alfred Carruthers, ’29.........cccccccsessssseteseessessssseesereces A
Justice, Dan Ray, 742........c.cccccscrcccssssrsnrsesssssssssenscsscnscseonsenss CG*
Kaplan, Leonard Herman, ’38...........c.sccssssssessccsssssssssssesceseeed AAF
Keeler, William Joseph, °41...0.cccthe.....pcccccscsscosssccsessccveossscseseseved AAF
Keller, Georie: Simind, 43. iciiticdesscscececesecnesgiciesdescsdBeinessssoveee NAC
Kellogg, Richard Wieder, '34.................cccsescssssesceesessesessesssnees N*
Kelly, Robert Gorrell, ’21..................ccccccesscssscccseserssessesseres AAF*
Kelsey, Sidney Harrison, 734............sccccccsesssssereccsessssssssesssecseees N*
****K emp, Robert Alfred, '39..............cscssssssrcsssrsecsssssssssssssssseed AAF
Kerr, Stanley~ Joseph, °40............ccccccccsssscccrscscccscssssrscesssevenaesers N*
Ke ehel. WH Oiy PeOWrOlL, FE,g. : eeiseiiccehoteetndtlss 0000s cosiegsunbesibeningestd AAF
Kidd, James Callvin, °44..........c.ccccccccssscccsssscerccccsscsesccssssseonoed AAF
Kimbrough, Kenneth Chapman, '26..........:::ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeennneed AAF
Kircher, Ralph David, Jr., —t Mra Ry asliapWeapagecvovsndsvcedasecactaneull A*
Krieger, Alfred Charles, Jr., ee tails eee Ri ee taleape di deeetiageasviall A
Lapsley, George Mclver, ane ‘debit in Mh, ., Stes ssh sss aaasenonaustouayeal A*
Lee, Leroy Madison, Jr., '35..........cccccccccscccccccsssccsscsceecsssesesssseasoes N
Lee: ROUCHE TIT AE i 20 cia tectcncs lateness vn tcadicccR cnagectuwtisonsedcennsaghes A*
Eee ROSE Foam i ai etedansthce stds Sich nc nei Livececncccdapb ates Kintasedoans N*
Lewis, John Starles, "BZivccccccccsssccossssccccocsccvessssssossvocsesesvscessosacncasee N*
Teovin, Vidar: DORR Pi io ooo eesticsence olekie dina senbnoscseesect AAF
Lingenheld, Edward Charles, Jr., '40.........cccccceeceseeeseeeneenes AAF

[8]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

Name and Class

Branch of Service Name and Class

Branch of Service

 

 

Litteral, Kelley, '40......... coseeuseanennecanennuceneconsenucensennecsnneennecousseuness A Sager, Frederick IY WEAN, S4scchciacisvhisy civechanctgocertnctclinnet ae MC
Lucas, George Logan, AS .secsssseeesssnneessssnessssnnssnsesnsersnessneennees NAC aren. TOS.” VV sith A ASP ORD, ~- behicnctoikubcccvcccecvcdaiincseipscuctastouleael N*
ucBryde, John McArn, Litas sve ttipinsadiadaicasyboukstAaiipie tte terktiis Ay: Rees, Patt Fr TAGs cacts sock cbncs cedverSaaanneguocgasaiiGs scoot A
NeCardell, Robert Clingan, Fa sf Tbstodbeietesceakanes ah epee elceksatabbh odond N SECO, REIS LTS os ce t55, eo ic itectcdeotc be aaeecn taal AAF
McCully, James Dixon, Riek Aha walantisipis cou aciscksl Oks adeaheae cou kan NYS peas Perna Ta RG aa ras ceeshdoca hv Rdodeceotncdlontesticecacasdheckaneena aa
\McMurran, GOOF eT Atel, Pe ibestashaddastacisitheny-tptcbensddediiadeesiits N* SOMCON, “VV UAE: EOL MON, TGs, POO cicsahooescdecedccuceaccantbcstdearmieaans N*
Vany, Mc Meen Hepburn, CO ic eae eae eee de oe A IT.” TVW TRTIATIN RO SONG eS co ec ie toe es te oe ee eee N*
c Meee, Samuel  Adasag, SBpieicl-irsisaptnastoveonastovnsousvibnetsbestiasoven Ne; SHaae We: FBS aii a hsres cats «selina ddeseee cdecbvadpcob ucucdettkapeckotentestiaheo wane A
Matthews. Jacksons: BORGER, | ei hank ensets sates cotesacsnspasaseetovhtesivel By. RaW, AR RACONDI CCITT” Fath. 5 occ ecestuakeinstcaneacdvnegapacabesceeconns A*
Mehler, Thomas WY el 6 Babdcdaek is GA se nn das ca erica ienh antes AAT S5ticiad,: Obi ECan, Geico hadi tnk ss ocucacostcthestus ance cabetavecaadieadlaal A*
Mercer, Stuart (GEEW  Saee cdeenned hte pa sceick ise oie sss kebis cs ab cdaeaacas books N SSRCRERS “LER SCTIOLG. « b MIOETAP, - htciccp cals c.ccecetecncivudaawedincade tk dike cknesccaaan A
Merritt, Robert PSR 5a lnthicnsin tanteuisentnatiVenimnavaiveiake N* SSB OCT.. FULTS RE, Ve MUON Bi dials icc 0c ctb bak coscrovendaayhcedccetaoanans oad A
Miller, Ed, °33.....-..ssscsccsssssscsscsesessesssesseessnsessssssssssssssssnsnsnsesceseed ATES | SSemtit ll, | PCCP ICIS opcg ce vice cvsekceocsenionsacdrctessibucst jecddutpualld <adiite Capa N
Milligan, Robert Earle, Jr., '39.....ccsssssesesssesreessssessrensssseneseeed ASS. Snaith, Dr Tame Ast Giis FE,) ie soveckitdadcocioeschgh tendessoschotbuld anual A*
Molloy, Thomas Aloysius, Ji., '38......scsessesseeseseeseeenerseeseeseees N SET OID TOT DEM CENT. Po disinsans cavidalsls Gnbetionitentpienen kates dee A*
Monroe, Dougald McDougald, Jr, °42......ccseseeeseeeeeteeteeneesened A>. Spence, Dr, Joni Maree Tris Leis didecsaccdehssecsicetss ecueic catia A*
Mndy, Francis Sadler, 783 .6..cic.iceqsccccbesvosecevcsssgevcsscsessonvetepeessiis A> AS paita, RAMI CIS FINE SW iesrotcaciviahcnsecebcoupincs Xcsprom cedeacta alerts A
Mooney, Robert Joseph Timothy, '42.............cccsssssscseereseeeed RAP: Stank "ERoree Ferrera io 455 ik cacecchacdexecareschccdocercomadteaeaae A*
Morgan, William Buckner, Rn te ae atcha Sc oe N* SSERIOW:, PECNED SUCRE Gls “WES ov easieus tar ids acctiouanrnacstrtcnadschanhunlalnendae A
Seis, Harrelk Femme, tatieteptsviseicbiuspeisss cnnstsinduosdiinpaensiapsousocsiees N Stanatd Fans TIGR OO noc exes cdaaudinicraackikice nee A
SEEPOSO, CGtHITOERTIO, | POs sncclshecatihs cotashchibiliosececpbiatnipnenbdee seed APR*:: Stantey,’ Jatin WV ORG 48 oi. fish cette icsietiidin ciacicateent ane
Semerer, Charles: JOCtrey, 00. sikgecscittssidpsoicasclibsipheenbdgitlenoandaesesstd AS... Sears tee WY ah OM soso: cceke dec chs tossed dGénndbaconiea tracks ventas aeeca A
Memeo), Jolin Carigies SO icasspecesgsndtosbakinopstsnasdevnonegtghosddupiavoderiscepned A* SE Pal EL, Fl cance Bnens ete ienekec vac tb he ciuhbcbedde obec lee i nae A*
Seah. Jotim: E.GSriGeas, Peet vahewkes tags och ack tasty sos cgocctndsecbdapapvehsheooshsnotints N* SESW PUN EP TIET: TEs. Sic ccccccndnchiccteinsceieaapousaccepcdiiyleAempoesll A
Remason, Russell Fears: 2) Ois ” Baeissanccsbannsosbcindebhicces ih cgacdtiosdenss NAC: SGC ce geet hei akis actin ondh andonsscceuaadubadidhaiebente cckiinsea teases A
Seed), Jarre BRterreeeties NU isdoweotn docs <eok pact bagesoaptasodvescdissdcvsenseesd A*

Beemington, J Omi FEC Wales ()l1y 5 Wesisevendctehecticassepcasadaakvncsecess MM

emeonnell, Pils. Asi Vis A tuincadessedehopcdhicecsscnabevdbasguoteusvbesnasqecese CG

Seeeterrall, Viillsates UL MGCP WOOG, G9 .ckevcccccedésecsavyoccccctcoctebeccteasoauil A

Reenwitz, Balclwpiss PA Orvis: ak siicissccdediccecctnbtervsdbeckibessbiieliessslnansostae A

mmerincgs, Howard Gamivert, ies.” OF <vscosdendsechecicstastissedeceapeskivpevensecd A*

mer, ByFON AMMOUG. Ee censeiiccscnglsti cuscabsactensnttheelasbiebictep shiva A*

memmer, Chester: ceemes Tio siticntosscccokcoviesh posseds Mloccssdeausaagies MC

mericins, Joli A leseiser” Soci. b. cs, aes qucdecia dies qitkilleds chaban aebidtnnedded A*

Maraons, Williats OCKWOOGS 44iccciccdébccecsiles suasbuscbsclacccchetvcubtcewed \

meaterson, Lr. CRG: FROG, «"Abscswpasshscrisunsiveisodiwasigsts dunkecsppcias N*

SELCTSON, KGW SAV iCs po eccnnis dastcisinnks dectdeariatnob bedakth GheUeths nocsnutandeiads A*

mene, Willistie Kees, Bien eo ancésneccviccunpes beta aseond tabs iactenadaclibscnrainad \

MmrsOn, “TL HEGRE, 1 Waledesccncsesvhscabdede tans elovscodppedetacaitcustantbunadiiaus A*

Mesrin, Robards etie | Weucvactcectitedivalcesitocecbcedsceckslidenivovcated uae Fete

marr, Walter’ IN GipOiig oii +2 oacceksacscibecesastasssthoataheAiscupecdpeessotd AAF*

eniard, Heavies Sasi Ue 5 ian ei ccstdestukcpladebccsdbesveetetiootcvatie \AF

Bollock, Dir}. FARE MOees Za cast hisieiadnsthbiedsndsaktiacstccinisghe cipaaasaaeel A*

Seyovell, Lec wit {rere remeeath,” Fire, ee Piie cadaudeascsssechos sleadeanchanecedsinel AAF*

Sridham, Loews Auber Cl COCs pie eivscectaApcentevcresnegupiees cacdtegeabonss N

Bagland, Jom SCHvMll, So evvrincssoatVhadssisckedigavecovecheledanes chvbeckelaacanseat \

emhall, Niche: JOC; 2 Galhetiessscvskchssapelocmeiblade ibn apheons niasvapieeth odes onnentedinn N*

may, Henry Janathaiss [ais «Be csnavestasesasscagssaleie bivinottovesseptdenepagatenie \

mead, Jobin. Mimi reer eg. 5. csc ccalisidlinec co idanisaaddscvschicbidiotesiauserd \

eed, Charles Paik iis: sievitkncceshscéguctabvepetabardsovaieeh tpevhocggocveibu AAF

eed, K elhy perk’, TG. er sidiescerunccssgescdedeins cdtyscedantvaibindicsssohscnahanaed A *

Bemimie], FRcmeendl Ae Ohe ai cindeacksuthessbestithe <ceh crdeecnveWinst cade ncndd \AF*

mex, Chasles Weert 7 ei ssdincadincacteiviss tatu: osheclcdptscdaastisasesesavecele N*

Revydel, Chatter A icem te. (G9 oss ncicte tdsiice ss cscstncveatk otic cnspdnahactencdl A\AF

miley, Ech wre ree Be ms Bice aschsploincactbetobeniasencedbaasSasos moipedeineribel N*

Rimi Do, Ee weeees. oo chicks Wacccbtankerenacosatinssstttsssangakbeeeasiveestiyecncss AAF

Ritchic, VaR O Wels ial: Co aitivekecvsscdidiicpessdinwdtuocusiphatscaticed A*

Roberts, EXGyeell WW Gti, Foc OF ccctagscaaticacecsd teh thntoddasiveaichchievesagl A

Roberts. Tharp S., a a I is alba dinn N*

Robertson, Alexander Stuart, Jr., "4 1) s..cccccccscscccoccscsssseseesecoeed A\AF

Robertact; ELAPcy a aetei, | < sO uassnsesschpeibeasstennasestarcssnteasecntencuedisesh N

Robinson, CHASISS By OUTBs 8B iat wei dit ie cic cacchenco brane btnssilpenenes NAC

Robinson, Williams Fl eslep G4... .csisiticcses sicisehacsisveedocaastessnchasathgeoss \

Root, Robeie We mee, ee rrrckieceecks sean cnctabe canalel sbvtenksacegneesdceea N*

Rosborought, ed ward umene 725.6 ssecesecissentsssnvessdaschavapbersscaccoge A* Ensign Robert Edward Holland, Jr., ’36, Naval Air
Ross, Willissh* BiGebert, [AG jcikaissrcinssticthuciebaspouaiaweed AAF Corps, is on active flight duty aboard a carrier with the
Ruerer, Ve armee i, 1 bGiccuccsiteb one dkesouhscécliutperccepshaubaccelabeatoanes CG* southwest Pacific fleet. He has been on active duty with
Russell, Jarnes: AIGORM, «Gi, Wl cvcadenersccspncammbetvedseisgtuneaiadoannched AAF* the fleet for some time.

[9]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Ee SUK MIRO, BO iiss. neadcctodadneasshithon vectenscar nn MC*
Serta as norton <P rancie: 9 4B ci si<5,is dino bedatend deneilscdineckectoctceqsneaaied A
Strasse. verah: BMarcGrésdor, 56.0739. 5. ari iaiasscckststesccssecsccanpalll \
Rs VR GN sciuecsiakcie Redctavsphcoacs eoratioamabibs as cubccbeviec) Asada A*
Shier ame SEIT OUS A AMENE GL" Us ch inaes sc qnavchapoteicadabaticdiaes clcwoes total AAF*
pebereetth: FOCRICER J OBR PAIN. oo sic: acossites thane iteiaddels pacar sos-nsvesehi N
Sutherland. Francis Alexander, : "22 .aiscctineveskitcsssescseccacccostecsocesd A*
Sathhin,  Nigmpert Wilkinson: "2s: aiaierea dee cdiaicsssssdevecsocssiconcon N*
Swiss Preaercic Gilbert. 730... ..cieamarttstiisdesediscesccssccoveaspicannss CG*
SWRA SAEED 22 COCOE: . 5.2..ch ccaseeeth Tatas rckLhls cndzechandvesacccsepascant CG*
SAN OTOL Gy «Cai casuninn apa Adah ce ainsiinanacsuckesobctnonede sd AAF*
LOE, Taemeey MOTSN BTR. AG siti mhstceiinasesativbcscccwcassendsnpenepivacd AAF
TO: LODE: AACN T RE FM has Nacoas cidsascnehsccdéncetecesocstenveee MC*
a EES. CUTE ROANT d OR NG 7 ee Saiki charts shchccechnceidsccoscsoccecdoccccuseend AAF*
eamame: Tarnee TO Gee> Ties tis ccsciecckcocshcaveoessansivncsccsecssonceccdcctael A*
SEIN. 0 SRMNNIOE, SUMAN er CR RIT, Sh 5hL ss Fes acndnschcsaasenandedocnegeed AAF*
PERMA, SU CSUREN 7 ARMIN IP ads Soca So cdc och Scincassiapsepcsonsdecsessnansandeat A

 

 

Professor George S. Jackson, managing editor of the
Alumni Magazine since October, 1939, has been com-
missioned a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve,
and is now taking indoctrination training at the Naval Air
Station at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. Mary Barclay
and Paul B. (Jerry) Shamhart, Jr., 45, of the Alumni Of-
fice, are attempting to carry on his work as managing edi-
tors of the Magazine. Lieutenant Jackson has been an
assistant professor of English at Washington and Lee
since 1931, and was coach of the varsity debate team. The
work for which he is training will be with the Air Combat
Intelligence staff of the Navy.

Name and Class Branch of Service

Demeter Clower, 241, livesisdecoscsuestacdivbaltakctpheds <cccs odvcebias MC
NT TIE EG. CSL OLIE 10a) aM ishaskaovenesvensditlndvonasoidagasebcccatoorsec al N*
UII DUNES FONE, 2 9h. 5 tah hoa pees ubcotootasardubeboereusipuenntee cbdonw ill N*
Senn SRE CUNY OPO Zo, 2 ccccpuassacondounsetiildenbebussessvagnal A
aa TRS A PSNI | IS doce cdnachavscunpsandscshbanbeplbapscoasecceinail N
EAC OEE URE WF RERIDEND FUMES DU cin ccc es cdenaseuchdcucedesaveuidsecvesssensveidl A*
erreur CUCU BS SER OA 5 on ta shidbdipensocaatared \AF*
NS Be aN Pe BE” 08. de, ion cc kccevvacedsmupehstccsdpsvcbodivoccs sil A*
PE AIRE TEED Rog SD case cscacsscockbicccasdeataineniapsisesseaseta A
WE, ACI A OND WU YL. Lissssecceccndicecessesecssagubsbbndsanecasevees MC*
es th RNR TUE Hh can scodedeseksosanssicdevoidonqerenssdhdveil A*
ee Aan RONEN AL os, scdcceaveurceveccenesisecavintancdbhtuan N*
WARM AND, RR ID ID. bac scicgo schon cedes covaseic¥desccsesedenoed AAF*
Warner, Jonathan Westervelt, 741.............ccccsccssssssssssssscsscnsssceseed A*
Fe a EE EF ioick isons ci ccocamkanscscboognscesecapovegsatbsooedll A
OE MRR Re I ah os ook, crv cacvcccsccvncacsebdecvoossdnsdssed N*
UC IPARNOP IE. CII CRIN, soa dh. wa devtnabécspocbecuedereipel A
VY RG Fee AU UN Fa cadonccakeccevcadicccocveccabcacchersouecdad AAF
WE RIM AUREL OER TAF, os... clu Ccavce sécvenseoceediccccocesibece N*
VE CE Ny otis cling wcacedcernsi sos chnedstvvesivacocendoovbcboase N*
AS aks Leigthcc hc cenie wink osed skodhavtaedciedeccappine’ A*
Ve SOCOM: TR COP hs See hess uschhicekeA ated ais nA sacteabcvhscatencsccnshones N*
BO ASOD < NV RUIIIIIIL <1 ce bbnpset ideok so cbbe bunob ubnge cbc ebebakg costbibied accovnan Jugeons N*
WERRATED, DAME BAI IEL CSB cocecasnaesde veda ovodon bed ansdaevacesovseostectades N*
Wi reeks Tt FGI, a. nce cecihencdinas tvainsagehemed cadens condos MC*
WV LUE, PROD ONE  RPIIIUNE ys WB aikas cerntdleveaoveabh ccdecheaelgecstocesacassascactbaaeel A
WM CREATE, DBE TA ICE; Fp bebea Gti chderdp delle ndhachvdencaddoblbiondeabeeicadevoeaaiieens N*
VU TAINS: LIT PRIOR IE CWLON, | Oia 2. s0sccsscctuevadscasvagactubetonhps state N*
WV SELABIMCIE. WY OTROS Ts 12s onkscctudicdveobin oshastetsdieevasshncescoeltabaronsvel AAF
WVIIATIBOT,  VV-INOE “SEC, 72 Graco wncsccscsesscacsvbadiocecsccdgnscetieocucctana A
WY SED; APRN, Occ tigistaeddes Skeiseociccdeerodsdoterstctoieweel AAF
VVAISOT,” Lae OT ORIC VE SEG lg. Od sek. cess s<ekcedicdbnndsscdpchasdsaavodionul \AF
VEST TIDGIAGS FORT sei ic kak saicaecacbcchekeseecBediicveaTenions’ MC*
Vir SRR A SERED: SRO 8 nt is oor 3c sctseejnteeidboarntccumetetsaeiiagan’ N*
Wy CE AE LE PARI, Ens CAC, wis sec rivanisaivoiages sdecbavnwsbiseneasceanel A*
PE GOGH, PI Is ea ies di cssccsccacbbapaintikabchdebebs voc evnccsscebies A
Via CORI BOTA he AP intabin ciscech oben sccdvccbackigdibesccececdsooed AAF
YSPPOU i FOE Ps Hei ihcagihbenndsccnsnsdits acca cededDboteresecseosveded AAF
Aa EI ee ED a Le ee cee acnebubaabte N*
CaO Te en oS cdceldoontens N

 

Students Enlist in Reserves

RECENTLY tabulated figures show that 358 students—
just 71 less than two-thirds of the University student

 

have enlisted in one of the several reserve pro-
able to

body
grams, having decided that they will be better
serve their country by sticking behind the books until
“an excellent record which the

graduation. This provides

University can examine with pride,” states a recent issue
of the Ring-tum Phi, student paper.
student enlistments (to November 24)

53 undergraduates are now in the Army Air

Records of
show that
still in the process of getting their
There are 150 students in the Army En-

Force Reserve, with 15
papers in order.
listed Reserve Corps, whose examining board visited the
campus early in November. The Marine Corps has en-
listed 40 men, and the Naval Reserve about 100. Profes-
sors Johnson, Moger, and Paxton are campus representa-

tives of the Navy, Army and Marine Corps, respectively.

[ 10 ]

 

 

 

el

 

oa

es

Se ; d=

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

e -
. ss = 2
be RE RDI WI RG Ra

 

FRONT ROW: (left to right:) Michaux, Daves, Lawrence, Fitzpatrick, Ciesla, Cavaliere, Ailor, Wheater, Hutcheson

and Rulevich; SECOND ROW: Head Coach Jerry Holstein, Backfield Coach Cy Young, Baugher, Working, Russell,

McKelway, Mehorter, Williams, Cook, Stephenson, End Coach Pres Brown (now in U. S. Marines); THIRD ROW:

Manager Bill Sizemore, Crockett, Babcock, Otter, Kelly, Harner, D. Norman, Kaplan, Milona, Freshman Coach Perry

Simmons; FOURTH ROW: Director of Athletics R. A. Smith, Assistant Manager Warren Barger, R. Norman, Di-
Loreto, Furman, Miller, Marx, Fox, O’Leary and Trainer P. J. Morrissey.

Summary of 1942 Football Season

By Dick Houska, 1943

OOKING back on Washington and Lee’s 1942 football
Ls record most observers would be inclined to rank it as
one of the worst in the school’s gridiron history and as far
as the won and lost columns in the record books go, they
would probably be right.

However, those who were fortunate enough to see the
Generals in action, especially in the season finale against
Maryland, know that Coach Jerry Holstein and the 30-
odd men who worked with him deserve a great deal
respect and credit for playing out an extremely tough
schedule under every possible disadvantage.

The performance of the Generals under the difficulties
they faced won editorial recognition on the pages of The

Roanoke Times with a tribute of “Hats Off to the Gen-
erals’’ not for their record of one win against eight losses,

but for the determined spirit with which they squared off
against every foe on the slate regardless of the odds
against them.

The fighting spirit which characterized Washington
and lee this season rose to its heights against the Clark
Shaughnessy-coached Maryland team, which held a 20-
point lead over the Generals at the end of the first quarter.
Staging one of the greatest comebacks any team ever has

College Park, the Big Blue, sparked by reserve half-

back Dave Russell, rolled up 28 points and was threaten-
ing a dazed and unnerved Terp team through the air as
the final whistle sounded. That blast of scoring failed to
top the 32-point total of Maryland, and another near
victory became another loss on the record.

Just what the season’s result might have been if the

gallant Generals hadn't been nipped at the outset by a

pair of aerial bombs from the hands of Mountaineers
that gave West Virginia a 21-7 victory in the opening
game, no one knows. But that setback plus some three
thousand miles of traveling, most of it in day coaches,
combined to balance the scales in favor of Kentucky and
Rollins, and to provide W. and L. with three losses and
a host of injuries.

the Blue ran and

passed a scrappy Hampden-Sydney team into the Wilson

Returning to their own backyard,
ield turf for their lone win of the season and that by a
20 to 13 score which might have been doubled save for
penalties. “Lighthorse’” Harry Lee Harner provided most
of that afternoon's thrills as he galloped 50 yards to a
touchdown, returning a Tiger punt, and passed 28 yards
to Ray Norman in the end zone for another score.
Virginia Tech snagged their victory from the Generals

much the same way West Virginia did as they fired

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

pair of “way down the field” passes to nullify Washing-
ton and Lee’s continually threatening offense and won by
a 19 to 6 count.

Injuries robbed the Generals of a win over an under-
rated Richmond team and raucous Wahoos, blessed with
a sure-eyed passer, spoiled Homecoming by an amazing
34 to 7 score. Tossin’ Tabb Gillette was the Wahoo won-
der boy as he set a national record for completed passes—
23 out of 35.

‘ven this failed to keep the Big Blue team from
staging near upsets against Davidson and Maryland. They
scored 41 points in these two final games, losing the first
by a 21-13 count and barely being edged by the Terps 32
to 28.

Reconciling the Generals’ record this season with
the manner in which they played is rather hard. Averag-
ing 9.6 points per game and using a passing attack that
netted over 125 yards in each contest would normally give
any team more than one victory. Yet with this as their
average Washington and Lee holds only a lone win.

Such factors as the loss of three members of Coach
Jerry Holstein’s staff, the lack of adequate blocking and
tackling dummies, long trips to many games, injuries
such as those incurred in the Kentucky game and the
absence of a fullback all hampered the team this season.

However, if football is played at Washington and Lee
in 1943, alumni can look forward to seeing the fruits of
a ‘I’ formation offense run by men who have a year of
bitter experience behind them. Now known as the “fight-
ing Generals,’ next season may bring the addition of
“winning” to that title.

With the football season over and the opening of
basketball and wrestling scant weeks away, Washington
and Lee lacks a cage coach for the unusual array of
court material on tap for this season. Headed by Captain
Leo Signaigo, lettermen Harry Baugher, George Wood,
Leon Harris, Jack Roehl, Clancy Ballenger and Bill Bry-
an await the first call for practice. Sophomores sure to
see plenty of action after coming up from a race-horse
Brigadier quintet last year are Harry Harner, Dick
all three as dangerous on

 

Working and Ray Norman
the court as on the football field.

At present the W. and L,. basketball slate lists 15
games with the majority being conference and “Big Six”
foes.

The future of basketball will depend largely on the
rulings of the athletic committee which meets during the
first week in December, at which time the problem of a
coach and the time of practice (since army service school
men will be using the gymnasium during the afternoon)
will be decided.

 

The Washington and Lee University 1942 football coaching staff, left to right: H. K. “Cy” Young, General all-
time grid great (now with the Office of Censorship in Washington); Perry Simmons, freshman coach; Paul
A. “Jerry” Holstein, new head coach at W. and L.; Preston Brown (now in U. S. Marines); and R. A. “Cap’n
Dick” Smith, director of athletics.

(1

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

Cy Young Called to Washington

ews of the departure of Harry K. (Cy) Young,

Alumni Secretary for the last twelve years, for duties
with the Office of Censorship in Washington, will be re-
ceived with genuine regret by Washington and Lee
Alumni everywhere.

Leaving Lexington on brief notice only two days in
advance of the meeting of the Alumni Board of Trustees
held on November 7, “Cy” submitted a written report,
expressing his deep appreciation for the cooperation and
support received from Alumni generally and from the
University Board of Trustees, the Admainistration and
Faculty during his service as Alumni Secretary.

Temporarily, Miss Mary Barclay, who has acted as
his secretary, was placed in charge of the Alumni office

School for Special Service
(Continued from page 4)
ity to the Army school and that all of us are looking for-
ward with the keenest anticipation to a very enjoyable
and beneficial association.”

[In explaining the new school, Dr. Gaines stated: “The
University has sustained its existence through every war
in which our nation has been engaged. We have full con-
hdence that throughout this mighty struggle to save our
country, Washington and Lee will continue to perform
its immemorial task, will continue to make effective its
purposes and its allegiances.”

and will be assisted as heretofore by Jerry Shamhart and
s0b Boucher, students at the University. A meeting of
the Alumni Board of Trustees is to be called in the im-
mediate future to consider further continuance of the
work of the Alumni office.
On behalf of the officers and members of the Alumni
Soard of Trustees and for the Alumni as a whole, I de-
sire to record full recognition of the unswerving loyalty,
industry and devotion which “Cy” has always shown in
connection with Alumni affairs, and to extend to him
every possible good wish for success in his new duties.
Joun C. Morrison
President, Alumni Board of ‘Trustees

Charleston, West Virginia, December 3, 1942

R. C. Maddux,’26, Promoted

)

Kk. C. Mappux, B.S., °26, vice-president of radio sta-
tion WOR in Newark, New Jersey, was elected a member
of the Board of Directors of the Bamberger Broadcast-
ing Service, Inc., operators of WOR, at a recent meet-
ing of the board. Mr. Maddux joined the WOR staff in
December, 1940, as director of sales and was appointed a
vice-president a year later. After leaving Washington and
lee, he attended the Harvard Business School. Before
joining WOR in 1940, he held several posts in the adver-
tising and sales fields and was managing director of the
New Jersey Council for Industrial Development.

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Chapter Notes
Washington

WASHINGTON AND L&E Alumni of Richmond, Vir-
ginia, held a dinner meeting at Ewart’s Cafe on the even-
ing of October 30. Dr. Walter Flick represented the Uni-
versity. At this meeting Judge Carlton FE. Jewett was
elected president of the chapter.

Charlotte

CAROLINA alumni held an informal dinner meeting in
the Gold Room of the William R. Barrington Hotel in
Charlotte, North Carolina, on the evening of November
13, prior to the Washington and Lee-Davidson game on
the following day. The wives of alumni, the football
squad, coach and managers, were guests of the occasion.

John L. Crist, 13, presided, and short talks were made
by Larry Wilson, 10, Don Hostetter, ’32, Tom Glasgow,
12, and R. M. (“Student”) Frew, ’23. Coach Jerry Hol-
stein, 33, introduced each member of the team with fit-
ting remarks.

 

Campus Comment
(Continued from page 5)

Christmas holidays, which were not lengthened as had
been expected because of the transportation problem, 1s
the Troubadours’ revival of “Ten Nights in a Barroom.”
This old melodrama of tearful children and rum-soaked
fathers is expected to play before packed houses in the

se?

Troub Theatre.

Walt Browder’s first issue of The Southern Collegian
indicated that the campus quarterly had at last received a
much needed blood transfusion. Full of cartoons and
jokes and sporting a completely different makeup, the
fall issue was just what the students wanted.

Nores FroM ALL Over: On October 21 ODK tapped
17 students and five alumni in its first fall pledging ser-
vice . The administration revealed that a “June in
January” graduation exercise would be held for the 52
seniors and law students who were able to complete de-
gree requirements by attending summer school . . . Bates
Bryan, Chattanooga, Tennessee, was elected vice-presi-
dent of the student body to fill the vacancy left when
Felix Smart entered the armed forces . . . 563 students
signed to have their pictures included in Al Darhy’s 1943
Calyx . The Ring-tum Phi appeared in a new six-
column tabloid size .. . the Campus Charity Chest reached
its goal of $2,000 after a highly successful ten-day

drive ... 177 freshmen are going through pledge train-

ing programs of the 17 social fraternities remaining on
the campus ... The Interfraternity Audit System was re-
tained by the Interfraternity Council as a necessary insur-
ance for standardized fraternity accounting from
now on, weekends will be spent in Lexington, it seems.
Only three or four of the once great fleet of automobiles
are still seen whipping around the town, and these will
soon be rationing casualties as well.

(Iprror’s Nore: The author of this article was too
modest to mention the recent election of seven members
of the January, 1943 class, to Phi Beta Kappa, being one
of the electees himself. The candidates elected, to be
initiated December 15, are Walter R. Browder, Richard
EK. Cook, Joseph F. Ellis, Jr., D. E. Garretson, Albert D.
Tull, N. F. Wyatt, and Edwin A. Zelnicker, Jr.)

 

Political Activities of Alumni

Among Washington and Lee alumni elected (or de-
feated) in elections held November 3, 1942 were:

Joun W. FLANNAGAN, Jr., LL.B., ‘07, Democrat,
reelected to House of Representatives from ninth district
of Virginia.

Crirton A. Wooprum, ’09, Democrat, reelected to
House of Representatives from the sixth district of Vir-
ginia.

CHAPMAN REveERCOMB, ‘18, Republican, elected as
United States Senator from West Virginia.

Wicuiam H. Smaruers, 14, Democrat, defeated for
reelection to United States Senate from New Jersey.

JARED Y. SANDERS, JR., 16, Democrat, defeated for
reelection to House of Representatives in the Democratic
Primary, sixth district, Louisiana. He thus retires from
Congress at the end of this year.

Fapyjo Cravens, LL.B., °20, Democrat, reelected to
the House of Representatives from the fourth district,
Arkansas.

Joun C. Morrison, LL.B., °25, elected to the House
of Representatives from Charleston district, West Vir-
ginia.

JAmMEs Kay Tuomas, LL.B., ’26, was elected At-
torney-General of the State of West Virginia, despite
the fact that he is now serving as’a Captain in the Army

Air Corps.
|

[ 14 |

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

———
In Memoriam
1871
Tacpot J. BARTLETTE, M.A., one of the “Lee boys,”

died at his home in Pasadena, California, on March
12, 1942, at the age of 95. Mr. Bartlette was an honor
student of the University during the presidency of Gen-
eral Robert IX. Lee, and one of his most treasured pos-
sessions Was a letter from General Lee to his family,
commending Bartlette’s work as a student. He had been
retired since 1938, having served for many years as the
manager of the New Orleans Credit Men’s Association
in that city.
1876

Dr. WittiAM E. Dotp, retired New York physician,
died at his home in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Novem-
ber 9, aged 85 years. Dr. Dold was a valued and loyal
alumnus of Washington and Lee.

1878

Dr. NATHANIEL PALMER Pratt, former president
of Georgia Tech, died September 15, 1942, at the age
of 84. Dr. Pratt was the discoverer of the Pratt pro-
cess for manufacturing sulphuric acid, which was used
so extensively by the United States and Great Britain
during the First World War. His achievements in de-
veloping a high-grade soluble phosporic acid from tri-
calcium phosphate resulted in the organization of several
plants to develop deposits of this mineral, which has been
the foundation of the national fertilizer industry. Dr.
Pratt served as president of the Georgia School of Tech-
nology for a brief time in 1922, and was for many years
an officer and member of the board of trustees of that
school. He founded the N. P. Pratt Laboratory of
Georgia.

1927

CHARLES J. Crockett, Jr., B.S., met sudden death
on September 24, when the train on which he was travel-
ing to Washington was wrecked in Dickerson, Maryland.
This information reached the Alumni Office too late for
publication in the last issue of the Alumni Magazine.

Charlie had been an executive of the Aetna Life
Insurance Company since 1927, and served as a field su-
pervisor, working from Philadelphia.

Cyrus R. Corron died at home in Houston, ‘Texas,
on September 27, 1942. This advice reached the Alumni
Office too late for publication in the October issue. Mr.
Cotton was the vice-president of the Commercial Iron
Works in Houston.

 

Service Casualties
1939

SAMUEL Tipton JONEs, JR., was killed in an air-
plane crash on October 22 while training at Moore Field,
Texas, just eighteen days before he was to be awarded his
Army Wings. Lieut. Jones was given full military honors
at his funeral in Sweetwater, Tennessee, his home.

Sam, a Kappa Sigma here at Washington and Lee,
lost his life when the plane which he was flying hit the
tail of another plane; Army Air Force sources stated
that his efforts to save his plane kept him in the cockpit
until he was only a hundred feet above the ground, too
short a fall for his attempted parachute jump to be suc-
cessful.

Ropert A. Kemp was killed in action with the United
States Army Air Force in a British war area early this
fall. He was a radio operator on an American bomber.
While in school, Bob made quite a name for himself as
captain of the varsity wrestling squad, and as a member
of Kappa Sigma fraternity. His home town of Shamokin,
Pennsylvania, doing dual honor to an athlete and a soldier,
named the new Shamokin high school stadium the Robert
A. Kemp Memorial Stadium.

 

Dr. W. J. Humpureys, B.A., ’86, C.F. ’88, Se.D.,
‘42, Washington and Lee, Ph.D. Johns-Hopkins, is the
author of Ways of the Weather (The Jaques Cattell
Press, Lancaster, Pennsylvania).

While the weather is the most common of all topics,
none shows a greater or more regrettable lack of knowl-
edge than that which prevails universally about it. This
simple, yet comprehensive, study of weather will afford
every reader the general and specific knowledge for which
he has sought. Dr. Humphreys’ energetic style, his dis-
tinct manner of expression, and his sparkling humor
have combined to make this an unusual volume.

 

I REEMAN HANsForp Hart, B.A., ’12, has recently
published his book, The Valley of Virginia in the Ameri-
can Revolution (The University of North Carolina
Press ).

Dr. Hart paints the scene of life in the Valley during
the Revolution with the utmost fidelity and uses for its
colors, the words of the settlers themselves, extracted
from old diaries and other papers. One marvels at the
amount of research he put into the volume.

[15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Marriages and Births

Our heartiest congratulations to the happy couples in
recent weddings :
1935
Ligut. James Douctas Finvey, II, U.S.C.G.R., to
Miss Frances Marie Johnson in Norfolk on October 3,
1942. They are living at present in Norfolk, Lieut. Fin-
ley being attached to the Captain of the Port's office
there.
1936
LIEUTENANT Prick Morcan Davis, Jr., A.A.F., to
Miss Margaret Kable Russell on October 28, 1942, in
Miami Beach, Florida.

1937

Caprain GEorGE ‘Topp CRowELL, A.A.F., to Miss
Eyvonne Dumond, October 12, 1942, in Tocoma, Wash-
ington.

1939

Ligut. FraANcIS PENDLETON GAINES, JR., A.U.S., to
Miss Dorothy Ruth Bloomhardt in Washington, D. C., on
October 10, 1942.

Joun Lee Hawkins, II, to Miss Mildred Chelyan
Huffman, in Charleston, West Virginia on October 23,
1942.

1940

Lizut. EpwArp EMERSON Brown, Jr., A.U.S
Miss Esther Sanford Allen in Fort Sill, Oklahoma on
November 6, 1942.

FRANKLIN Scott SmirHER to Miss Mary Martha
Lough on October 10, 1942. They will make their home
in Terre Haute, Indiana.

LIEUTENANT JAMES Hucuson WIL Is, A.U.5.,
Miss Anne Faulkner Booth on November 2, 1942, in
Danville, Virginia.

1941

Lizut. JAMES R. McConne ut, A.A.F., to Miss Pa-
on October 3, 1942. They may be reached
through Box 345, Randolph Field,
McConnell is a flying instructor.

tricia Palmer
Texas, where Lieut.

Caprain RatpoH Epwarp Krenn, A.A.F., to Miss
Kathryn Sanford, Hollins, 42, in Washington, D. C., on
July 18, 1942. Captain Keehn is a member of General
Army Air

Arnold’s program planning staff at Force

headquarters in Washington.

1942

Lisur. GEorcE MacGrecor Murray, Jr., A.A.F., to

Miss Dorothy Lytle in Highland Park, Illinois, on
September 26, 1942.

ENSIGN FeLrx GarretT® SMART, JR., U.S.N.R.,
Miss Isabelle Lane Cutting in Fort Sead ATG
on October 17, 1942.

1943
LIEUTENANT WILLIAM HunvER Oswa .p, A.A.F.,

to Miss Jean A. Nutt on October 24, 1942, at V aldostal
Georgia. Lieutenant Oswald was then in flight training
for the Army, and was commissioned on November 10
in Valdosta.

Births

1925

AND Mrs. OLLINGER CRENSHAW, a son, Albert
4, in Jackson Memorial Hospital,

PROF.
Suford, on October
lexington, Virginia.

1939

Mr. AND Mrs. DonALb B. HOUGHTON, a son,
Thomson, on October 22, 1942.

Bruce

 

Dr. Shields, '98, Returns From China
Dr. RAN SHIELDs, ’98, B.A..,
a medical missionary in China since 1904,

NDOLPH T. who has been

returning to
this country in August on the Swedish exchange liner
are now visiting relatives in

Gripsholm. He and his wife

Lexington. For the past twenty-five years he has been
stationed at the Cheeloo University School of Medicine at
‘T’sinan.

Shields that his son,

captain in the Army

Word has been received by Dr.
Shields, Jr., ’32, B.A.,
Medical Corps, has reached his destination overseas, pre-

Randolph T.

sumably China.

 

WILLIAM LEE SHANNON, ‘41, has been teaching and
coaching athletics at Shelbyville High School this year.
He has been assisting at the Shannon Funeral Service ; 1s
active in Boy Scout
ader in the

Present classifica-

Assistant Scout Master and is very

organization work in Shelbyville and is a |
salvage program through the scouts.

tion is 4-I*. He plans to take a defense job this summer.

[ 16 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

2.
45TS.TSS
W SitTahy

VV; es 290

 

1900
RonErT A. WATSON,
Charlottesville, Virginia, is
chairman of his local draft

hoard and busy with other

war activities.
, First Lieutenant in the
«

His son is

Marine Corps.

Fur-

le wish to apologize for any errors in the class
notes appearing in this issue. The letters from which
these notes are taken were written, for the most part,
early last spring. The rapid influx of alumni into the
several branches of the armed forces of the United
States and the recent elections, have no doubt ren-
dered some of these notes inaccurate.

as a lecturer at Harvard
University and has com-
pleted a textbook which
was published last Decem-
ber. A new course in De-
fense Training has been
added in a program in-
tended to aid in preparing
students for wartime work.

 

 

 

 

|. R. HOLMES,
ness, Withy and Company, 7 Te
Ltd., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, being in the shipping
business, is talking very little about what he 1s doing.
Sufficient to say he is very busy and has plenty ot trouble.

1902

RANDOLPH PRESTON served as special assistant at-
torney general from 1933 to 1938; since that time he has
been ‘one of the hearing officers in the Federal Trade
Commission in Washington. He has a wife, three mar-
ried daughters, two sons and five grandchildren.

D. E. Wrrr is a special agent for the New Hampshire
Fire Insurance Company, with offices in the Krise Build-
ing, Lynchburg, Virginia.

W. Dewey Cooke is vice-president of the Southern
Fertilizer and Chemical Company, Savannah, Georgia.

W. Jerr Lauck and Associates, are Consulting and
Practical Economists, with offices in the Mills Building,
Washington, D. C.

1903

FrepERICK W. CRAMER is manufacturing fertilizers,
ground limestone and crushed stone under
the name—York Stone and Supply Com-
pany, York, Pennsylvania.

Rev. Ropert Tare WALLACE accepted
a call to Monticello, Florida, early in the
spring. His former pastorate was with the
Marion Presbyterian Church, Marion, Ala-
bama. He says his home is 240 EK. Wash-
ington Street, on the through highway to
the far South, and he hopes that some of
the Class of 03 may be passing through and

will stop to see him.

Cot JAMES WARREN BaAGLeEy continues

*e 7 A
\ i

    
  

His present address is 2
Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

1904

GEORGE CARRINGTON MOsELEy is professor of the
Social Sciences, Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Georgia.

WitiiAmM W. Bays is with the Federal Trade Com-
mission, Room 416, Seventh and the Avenue, Washing-

ton, Dac,

Matruew T. McCrure is dean of the College of
Liberal Arts and Sciences and professor of Philosophy,
University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois.

1905

Harvey C. Crasiii, who is practicing law in Mon-
roeville, Indiana, writes that his only son, who has been
teaching for Indiana University, has been ordered for
active duty as a first lieutenant in the air corps.

Jupce WatvterR J. RippicKk practiced law in Little
Rock, Arkansas, after leaving Washington and Lee, un-
til his appointment to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals in December,

1941,
1905

E. W. KEL Ly is with the Central Insur-
ance Agency, Inc., Bristol, Virginia. He has
a married daughter and a son eighteen years
old.

1906

Henry C. TittMAN, after returning
from World War I with the title of Major,
A wil? resumed the practice of law in Greenwood,
iW) Migs, South Carolina; was elected judge of the

ol Circuit Cout at Greenwood in 1922 and

 

RSITY

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

served until 1926, when he moved to Florida, taking up
the practice in Tampa. He has served as state senator and
county attorney. He is now a member of the Tampa
Utility Board and a member of the law firm of Tillman

and Henderson.

James R. (“Jimmie”) CAskig£ is a member of the
law firm of Caskie, Frost and Watts, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, his home town. His activities outside his practice
are taken up with the Presbyterian Church, of which he
is an elder; Washington and Lee, as a member of the
University Board of Trustees; and golf, in which he says
he continues as an “enthuiastic dub, enjoy-
ing the society and exercise, but taking no
prizes. 1907

Donacp W. M. MacCLukEr is pastor of
the Rose City Park Community Church,
Portland, Oregon. He is familiar with the
Pacific War Zone, having traveled exten-
sively in that part of the world.

W. L. Lorp is head of the department
of Mathematics, Woodberry Forest School,
Woodberry Forest, Virginia. He has en-
joyed studying and giving his Math boys
a bit of navigation, which he thought might be useful to
them if they have to cross the Pacific.

“T

1908

Ernest L. BEALE is practicing law in Franklin, Vir-
ginia. He has three grown sons, two of whom went to
Washington and Lee; Vaughan, B. A., 30; Lal B., ae
now with the FBI, and Ernest, Jr., °38,

Jack, who went to V. P. I., is also in the army.

R. C. MILLING is a member of the law firm of Muill-
ing, Godchaux, Saal and Milling, Whitney Building, New
Orleans, Louisiana.

is

is in the army;

“aRL K. Paxton says he always thinks of the Class
of 1908 as being made up of presidential timber because
he remembers “Mike” Denny handing out diplomas to
Grover Cleveland Gabriel, Thomas Jefferson Hale, and
George Washington Effinger. Earl was recently elected
president of the Rockbridge Historical Society.

Pryton Hopson is practicing law in Pikeville, Ken-
tucky. His oldest son, Peyton, III, graduated from An-
napolis in December, and has been at sea most of the time

since his graduation.

1908

Lone, Sr., is in the private practice of law at

[

W. G.

  

a --

Paul’s Valley, Oklahoma, with his son, W. G., Jr., who
is also an alumnus of Washington and Lee. W. G., Sia

(writing May 8, 1942) says he is a candidate for dis-

trict judge. He says: “I have always thought, and do
yet, that ‘Daddy’ Burks was one of the greatest, if not

the greatest, law teacher that this country has ever pro-
duced. Of course he failed on some of his students who
became politicians instead of lawyers, and that includes
you and me.”

1910

>. ASHLEY is vice-president of the Liberty Mutual
administrative
duties in connection with the management

Insurance Company, with
of the New England business. He says his
family is now grown up and he is a grand-
father, although he feels no older than he
did tennis Rube
or boxing with Tod Robbins.”
‘nglish at Colby
Junior College, the younger is a plebe at the
~=-United States Naval Academy.

“when _ playing with
Gwathney
. His older boy is teaching
rey’

.

ss
ae

—,
~

Rosert W. RussEvv is practicing law
— en in Rustburg, Virginia. He says the general
a ne

i
oe ae

ee

—. disorder which has attacked all of our in-
stitutions reminds him of the janitor of old New London
Academy who said that Washington was dead, Lincoln
was dead, and great men were dying every day, and he
felt kinda bad himself.

1911

RoGER WINBOoRNE is in the furniture business in
Lenoir, North Carolina. He says: “I feel that I owe a
great deal to Washington and Lee, far more than I can
ever repay. What I learned from books could have been
learned anywhere, but the campus, the stately old build-
ings, the chapel, and the tomb of Lee, the honor system,
and the men who were and are attracted by these things,
are its exclusive possessions. Together they create an
atmosphere, a soil, in which I believe great manhood and ~
true Americanism is nurtured, as it is in only a few other

places in America. And this University is ours.”

1912

Dr. FRANK R. RUFF is with the Burnett Sanitarium,
Fresno, California. His three children are all in college
this fall.

Dr. Ropert C. Hoop, Jr., formerly director of Ma-
ternal and Child Health with the Florida State Board of
Health, Jacksonville, has changed his address to 3260

18 ]

 

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

rs - 4 3 . . ( .
‘var . ilding, Arlington,
Wilson Boulevard, The Doctors Building, Arlingt

Virginia.
paut A. RocKWELL is a major in the Army Air
He served with the French Foreign Legion in

Corps:
|. He has a daughter and two sons, and two

World Wat
erandchildren.
; 1913

Ben F. Fiery, Baker, Hostetler and Patterson, Union
Commerce Building, Cleveland, Ohio, says: “We are
‘ndeed in a changing world, but to me there are two places
‘n this country that I hope will still retain their inspiring
traditions, and those are West Point and
Washington and Lee. To me each of them
has an atmosphere and an inspiration which
is priceless and can never be replaced if it
is ever lost.”

Howarp L. Ropinson, in addition to
practicing law in the Union National Bank

   

1915

J. W. MiLner is still doing business at the old stand
as far as Coca-Cola is concerned; serving his eighteenth
year as mayor of the city of Gulfport, Mississippi; and
has taken over the additional responsibility of running a
military high school with three hundred and eighty boys.

Leon W. Harris, Anderson, South Carolina, is busy
with the practice of law and looking after his farming
interests. When his letter was written in April, he was
trying to get back in the service. He was a member of the
A.E.F. during the last world war and since that time has
been in the reserve corps, Judge Advocate
General's Department, U. S. Army. He is
making application for active duty. His son,
Leon W., Jr., is a member of the student
body. Mr. Harris was a recent visitor to
the campus.

Witiiam H. Oast was for twenty-five
years senior member of the law firm of

eens: Clarkes, eS ee ee afer all Oast, Oast and Oast, being associated in
e . . - er - . . - c . , .
ow farming and says it beats golf andany = ; rt ae
n ) S 7 ‘ i ; Sa = ee the practice with his brothers, J. Alden and
+r relaxation he has ever tried with a te j

sa F oe ae. ; 3 hia i f ———. _-—«<Kdward L., both graduates of Washington

Tew ‘elieving strenuous work in the i ae :

col e Ten ae Se aS and Lee. He recently withdrew from the

practice of law. "WIA aT
=—— firm to take the judgeship of the Juvenile

WittiAM A. HyMAw graduated with =
the class of ’12, although he entered with the class of °13.
He is practicing law at 111 Fulton Street. New York.

1914

WittiAm H. NesLerr is now a colonel with the
United States Army in Australia. His 20-year old son is
a flying instructor.

SAM WILLIAMS is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liams, Robertson and Sackett, Lynchburg, Virginia. One
of his partners is in the service and he is carrying on the
best he can with his numerous outside duties, and serv-
ing as special assistant to the attorney general of the
United States as hearing officer in conscientious objector
appeals.

KEeNNoN C. WHITTLE is practicing law in Martins-
ville, Virginia. Two of his partners, William F. Stone and
Hannibal N. Joyce are both Washington and Lee men.
Stone is now in the United States Navy. Kennon has
three children: his daughter, Mary, graduated at Holton-
Arms School, Washington, in June, and the sons, Staf-
ford G. and Kennon C., Jr., are doing preparatory work

toward entering Washington and Lee.

 

-_ .-—_—_——

E and Domestic Relations Courts and the
Civil and Police Court of the City of Portsmouth, Vir-
gina.

WALTER C. PRESTON is a chemist with the Procter
and Gamble Company, Cincinnatti, Ohio. His residence
address is 3901 Clifton Avenue, Cincinnatti.

J. Cart FisuHeEr gives his address as 208 Witherspoon
Road, Homeland, Baltimore, Maryland, but no news of
himself.

JAMES LAWRENCE HOwWERTON is general superinten-
dent of production at the Longhorn Ordnance Works,
Monsanto Chemical Company, Marshall, Texas.

1917

Dr. T. Preston Wuire is unit director of the 38th
“vacuation Hospital Unit and is a Lieutenant-Colonel in
the United States Army Medical Corps. His family is in
Lexington for the duration.

R. Bruce Morrison is in the insurance business in
Lexington, Virginia.

CHARLIE McNirr, M.D., writing in April, says:
“Having joined F.D.R.’s old men who had to register
on April 27, | am now one of those who only ‘stand and

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

wait.’ While standing I try to engage my attention in
running a practice; doing some teaching at Columbia
Medical School and training the ubiquitous ‘First Aid-
ers.’ ”’ His address is 130 East 67th Street, New York.

1918
R.
Navy’s aircraft propellers, and says he is kept plenty
busy in these tumultuous days. His address is 1401 Fair-
mont Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

M. Berar is still engaged in the engineering of the

1920

Joun C. BLocKER is practicing law in St. Peters-

burg, Florida. He is county attorney for

Pinellas County and city attorney for

Safety Harbor. He is married and has
three daughters.

GLEN Evins is still with the Lykes
Brothers Insurance Agency in Tampa,
Florida, where he has been for the past
seventeen years. He has built a new
home, right on one of the best golf

courses, which is very satisfactory.

<p G. (“Bic Bitv”) BatLty has
been working for “Uncle FHA” for
some time, but hopes he will get a kick
at the Japs before this war is over. He says the lady he
works for has had him dig a “Victory Garden” in the back
yard and he now has two blistered hands and the new
work shoes have given him two blistered heels.

Henry BAKER is manager of Cold Rolled Sales, Shar-
on Steel Corporation, Sharon, Pennsylvania. He does not

give any news of himself.

1921

C. G. Gorpon Moss says that at Martha Washington
College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, they are busy rushing
girls through college—‘apparently so they can marry our
soldiers before they leave for parts unknown.”

Harvey ENLog, Jr., is still with the Social Security
Board as administrative officer, having supervision of
several offices located in Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee,
South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. His residence is at
214 Malaya Avenue, Hollywood, Birmingham, Alabama.
He has a family of four girls and a boy, who will enter
Washington and Lee in 1956.

Britt RuswTon is a major in the United States Army.

E. B. Bearry has been practicing law at Beattyville,
Kentucky, since he left the portals of Tucker Hall. He is

 

in partnership with his brother, V. S. Beatty, ‘07. The
Judge is quite active in civic and fraternal affairs too,
and his offices and honors in these activities make an 1m-
posing array: Past Lieutenant Governor of Kiwanis,
Kentucky-Tennessee District; presently Grand Senior
Warden, Grand Lodge of Kentucky, F&AM, and in line
for Grand Master; presently Grand Patron, Order of
the Eastern Star in Kentucky; and presently chairman
for Lee County for the American Red Cross and for the
sale of war bonds and stamps. Small wonder the Judge
hasn’t had the time to marry. But he indicates a feeling
that he should get around to that while he is still a young
man. Applications will be considered in order of receipt if
mailed to him, care Beatty and Beatty,
Beattyville, Kentucky.

FapyJO CRAVENS is our only repre-
sentative in the halls of Congress, so far
as is known to your agent. He has repre-
sented the Fourth Arkansas District here
€ since 1939, and is a member of the Ju-
diciary Committee. Fadjo is married, has
two children, and lives, while in Wash-
*s~ ington, at 4735 Woodway Lane, N.W.

1922

gg 2 GARLAND Gray served in the Senate
of Virginia during the past session. He was elected to fill
the unexpired term of Senator Robert W. Daniel, de-
ceased, of Brandon, Virginia.

WILFRED WEss is still teaching at Augusta Military
Academy, Fort Defiance, Virginia.

VERBON FE. KEMP is executive secretary of the Vir-
ginia Chamber of Commerce, which organization recently
held its annual meeting and elected Dr. Huston St. Clair,
of Tazewell, also of the Class of ’22, its president. Dr.
Gaines was the toastmaster at the banquet held on that
occasion.

MatrrHuEw CAMPBELL GIVENS HENDERSON has been
promoted from a captain to a major of the 391st Armored
FA. Battalion.

1923

A. F. (“Av”) Prerorri is teaching English and
Italian at the Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Massachus-
etts, besides coaching the baseball team. His address is
270 Beach Street, Revere, Massachusetts.

KF. L.. Sarres is employed by the Belle Alkali Com-
pany, a chemical plant engaged in the manufacture of
heavy chemicals, which by the way, supplies you with

[ 20 |

 

—

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

lrinking water sterilization. He has a family of three
aril > : ;
ing daughters. His address is P. O. Box 1371,

yery charm re
; West Virginia.

Charleston,
RANK Hurt is assistant professor of History and
Science in Western Maryland College, West-

Political arcs a
His home address is Ferrum, Vir-

minster, Maryland.
ginia.

Ep AvuLL makes an annual summer pilgrimage to the
campus, where his many friends are delighted to see him.
For the past three years he has been Boys’ Advisor and
head of the History department of Phillips High School,

Birmingham, Alabama.

1924

Tomas P. DuncaAN, 311-64 Street,
Newport News, Virginia, is now the
ewner of a 1400 acre hunting place
known as Puritan Island, where Poca-
hontas officially saved John Smith’s life.’
He is married and has been engaged in
manufacturing various articles, and has
recently made a military invention which ¢§
has apparently been used by the United
Nations with success.

Stuart A. McCork Le, last summer,
was granted a leave of absence from the University of
Texas, where he holds the positions of professor of gov-
ernment and director of the Bureau of Municipal Re-
search, in order to permit him to serve as Visiting Educa-
tional Counsellor to the National Institute of Public Af-
fairs in Washington, D. C. He expected to enter the ser-
vice of the U. S. Army Air Corps on June Ist, in the
management and control division with the rank of colonel.

Oris Howe ts very busy with his saw mill and large
farming operations at Wabash, Arkansas. He has a wife
and two sons now eight and twelve years old.

1925

Rev. Bruce F. GANNAwaAy, Class Agent for ’25-A,
Wrote a digest of the letters he received from members
of his class, sending each one of them a mimeographed
copy. We are using his notes. He says:

“Speaking for myself, I’ve been returned to this ap-
pointment for my third year, and we are having a fine
time. People seem to be realizing more in these times
that there is a real need for religion. I hope I can be of
some help to them. We have a membership of a little over
500, and about 70 young men have gone from our church

  

families into the service. They are scattered all over the
world. One has been lost on the U.S.S. Truxton. We
have put our building fund money into defense bonds,
and are contented to wait until after the war to put up our
new plant. Now for some news about the class of 1925.”

JOHN S. STRAHORN, JR., is teaching in the University
of Maryland Law School. He has followed with a great
deal of interest, the accelerated wartime program of
Washington and Lee, inasmuch as he is caught up in the
toils of a similar situation.

PETE MircueEtt, National City Bank of New York,
San Paulo, Brazil, has been in Brazil for the past fifteen
re” years. On October 29, 1930, he married

Miss Ada Mae Peyton, and they have a
daughter, Elizabeth Ann, who will be 10
(or rather was, on September 18.) Pete
carries the title of sub-manager. He has
~ gained 38 pounds, and says that his hair

‘
ei

   

is gray rather than brown, and practical-

ly gone.

“Bo” McMILLAN writes from Ath-

 

| 7B ens, ‘Tennessee, where he is agent for
the East Tennessee and Western North
a Carolina Motor ‘Transportation Com-
pany. Bo is still very active in civic af-
fairs. | know he is married and has a family, but since he
did not return the blank, I can’t give the details.

HERMAN WomMmE-porr, Bayview, Virginia, is pastor
of the Holmes Presbyterian Church. He received his
B.D. from Union in 1930. On June 17, 1937, he married
Miss Ruth Neal Walker. (Herman, we both started
preaching in 1930, and batched for 7 years—how did we
do it?) They now have two children, Ann Neal, who was
3 on August 4, and Herman, Jr., who was born May 15,
1942. Herman is 10 pounds heavier than he was, and his
hair has begun to turn.

Joun Wispom is a captain in the Army Air Force,
so he will be away from his law practice in New Orleans
for the duration.

C. T. ALtratHer, Rankin Avenue, Baskin Ridge,
New Jersey, married Miss Elizabeth Bonham on July 16,
1927. They have two daughters: Elizabeth Jean, born
November 25, 1931, and Constance, born October 31,
1934. Alt is relay engineer for the Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Company, and says his appearance
and weight have not changed.

VERNON KREINBAUM writes a brief note. He is still
at Emporia, Virginia, and we suppose is still in the lumber

[21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

business. We believe he has two daughters, but Vernon
didn’t return the blank, so you'll have to guess.

STEWART P. WALKER, Broad and 14th, Augusta,
Georgia, is vice-president and manager of Walker and
duPont Motor Company. He has picked up 35 pounds,
and is slightly gray. On October 12, 1935, he married
Miss Eleanor Gercke, and they have two sons, Stewart,
Jr., nearly 4, and Louis G., between 2 and 3.

Joe Hott, 635 Malvern Road, Ardmore, Pennsyl-
vania, is senior attorney, Registration Division, U. S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. On April 6, 1935,
he married Miss Julia Deat Beury, and
they have two sons, Joseph, Jr., born
April 16, 1936, and John B., born April
8, 1939.

an

Wan. B. Mack, Fort Mill, South 2
Carolina, received his LL.B. at Cumber- 7.
land in 1932, and is now practicing law.
He married Miss Elizabeth Mills on 4
July 13, 1930, and they have a son, Bar-
ron Bayles, who was 8 on September 19.
Bill has gained 20 pounds, but hard work
and worry have not yet marred his raven
locks.

KEN GoopE, Box 6119, Cleveland,
Ohio, is secretary to the assistant to the president of the
C. and O. Railroad. Ken will celebrate his fifth wedding
anniversary on November 27. He married Miss Dorothy
Ethel Stanton. They have a daughter Geraldine Lee, born
December 29, 1938. Ken says that outside of 10 additional
pounds, he has not changed.

1927

G. T. Davis is still with the International Business
Machine Corporation as manager of their Moline office.
His address is 503-5th Avenue Building, Moline, Illinois.

J. T. (‘Jack’) Lowe is judge of the County Court
of Tunica County, Mississippi. He is Class Agent for
'27-A.

1928

WitiiAmM J. Luria gives his residence address as
1901 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, but gives no personal
news. His firm is Luria Brothers and Company, Inc.,
Lincoln-Liberty Building, Philadelphia.

Rocer J. HALLER is completing his fourteenth year
with the duPont Company, eleven of which have been
spent in Waynesboro, Virginia. He has been married nine
years and has a three and one-half year old daughter.

 

1929

Irwin T. SANvDERS, Class Agent for ’29, wrote a
digest of the letters he received from members of his
class, sending each one of them a mimeographed copy,
We are using his notes.

Rosert B. LEE, assistant comptroller, Bankers Trust
Company, 16 Wall Street, New York: “There is no news
to report in my own case. I am still associated with the
Bankers Trust Company, where I came after graduation,
and up to this time have not gone off in the army. I main-
tain a small home in the suburbs with a wife and one
child. Reading our Alumni News is a
source of real enjoyment to me, and I
wish that it were possible for me to keep
in touch with our classmates, but I am
able to see very few of them.”

FINLEY WADDELL is in the insur-
ance business in Lexington, Virginia. He
is married and has two small children.

Henry P. JouNSTON has just wound
up two years on the code committee that
makes recommendations and writes all
the code operations for radio stations
over the entire country. There are seven
men on this board from seven different
states. Henry is vice-president and general manager of
WSGN, The News Age-Herald Station, Birmingham,
Alabama.

O. Norris SmMitH, M.D., has been commissioned a
major in the medical corps as a member of the 65th Gen-
eral Hospital Unit, sponsored by the Duke Hospital. He
was recently elected a Fellow of the American College
of Physicians. He says “Young Henry Louis, I], is thriv-
ing as is his grandfather.”

JAMES LANbDon Rutes: “To begin with, my address
has only recently been changed from Hobart, Oklahoma,
to Box 468, Muskogee, Oklahoma. I lived on the west
side of this state for thirty-five years and now I hope to
live on the east side for that many. At the end of that time
[ should know which side I like the better and will then
try to settle down for the remainder of my days.

“It was with interest that I noted the change which
is to take place at Washington and Lee as a result of the
war. Apparently it is the only thing for the school officials
to do, but I cannot help wondering just what is to become
of the men (and women) in the teaching profession. They
seem to be taken advantage of more than any other
group, yet it is to them that we ordinary citizens look
when our children’s education is considered. It would

[ 22 |

 

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—

bably be difficult to get most of us to do two or three
rover

months extr
t or another, but we do not hesitate to ask our teachers
sor ‘

In other words. I think it reflects a fine attitude
rt of the professors and the school to make the

4 work, or forego a planned vacation of one

to do SO.
on the pé
change that :
ordinary times.

is to be made. Of course, these are not

1931

FRANK Beapy has been married nine years and has
a daughter in the second grade at school. Has his own
€ . . . + r
Ford brokerage business in New York and commutes
daily from Philadelphia to New York. His residence ad-
dress 1s 9
delphia.
JoHN O. McNEEL, M.D., was in the
University of Virginia Hospital until
last May, when he entered the service as
a major with the Army Medical Corps.

1933

JAMES Hocus (““Tosy”) TYLER, III,
has been practicing law in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, since leaving school. For three
vears he served as assistant common-
wealth’s attorney for the City of Nor-
folk, and is at present a member of the
State Legislature. He was married in 1936, and has two

 

children—both girls.

Epwin W. Currrum is principal of the Middlebrook
High School, Middlebrook, Virginia, where he has been

for the past four years.

Homer G. Ray, Jr., is vice-president of the Georgia
Peanut Company, Moultrie, Georgia.

1934

THorNTON BERRY is prosecuting attorney of Mc-
Dowell County, Welch, West Virginia. Reports that his
two assistants in the office are both Washington and Lee
graduates.

Foster PALMER is first reference assistant in the
Harvard College library. He is a member of the Faculty
Club of Harvard.

Wittiam J. Moran, Jr., is a research chemist in the
laboratories of Merck and Company, Incorporated, at
Rahway, N. J. He was married June 15, 1940, to Harriet
M. Ritter and their residence address is 10 Madison
Avenue, Cranford, N. J. He is also working toward his
Ph.D. in Chemistry at Brooklyn Polytechnic.

8 West Upsal Street, Phila- bw“
We

 

1937

Kp STovER is practicing law in the First National
Bank Building, Washington, New Jersey. He has been
married since November, 1936, and has a daughter, born
December 23, 1940.

Davip WHARTON is instructor in the department of
History, Colorado State College, Fort Collins, Colorado.

1938

LANGDON L,. SKARDA has been practicing law in Clo-
vis, New Mexico, for the past several years. He is now
city attorney. When his letter was writ-
ten in April, he expected to be in the
service within a short time.

GILBERT MEEmM is _ still connected
with the Meem-Haskins Coal Corpora-
tion of Bluefield, West Virginia, as as-
sistant to the president. He is also an
agent for the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York.

WittiAmM LL. WiLson, Jr., 1s prac-
ticing law in Cumberland, Maryland.

ie LEONARD LEIGHT enlisted in the ser-
vice in December, and was attached to

the Judge Advocate’s Office. He is now overseas.

1939

Epcar A. Bassk, JR., is learning the business of Pig-
gly Wiggly, San Antonio Company Stores, 819 Buena
Vista Street, San Antonio, Texas. At present he is

handling advertising and some of the buying.

Joun L. Hawkins, II, has been in the legal depart-
ment of Mountain Truckers, Inc., since January, 1940.
His address is P.O. Box 4175, Owens Branch Station,
West Virginia.

RALPH MILLs is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia,
with offices in the Liberty Trust building.

ANbREW M. Eastwick, JR., gives his address as 4211
Liberty Heights Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, but fails
to give any personal news.

ENsIGN JACK GANONG was a visitor to Lexington in
November. His wife, who was Marian Mish of Lexing-
ton, and his young son, will make their home here for the
duration.

1940

Oriver J. TAaytor has been manager of the State

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Line Poster Service, an out-door advertising business,
located in Bristol, Tennessee-Virginia, and eight smaller
towns. He says it is more like a hobby than a job. When
his letter was written in May he was trying to close a
deal with the
desires has been to see Tokyo (in ruins, of course).

armed forces because one of his burning

CHARLES G. WALKER, JR., is with the Builders’ Sup-
ply Company, Corpus Christi, Texas. His home address
is 406 Yerby Circle, Corpus Christi,

ryan
l'exas.

Joun Francis O'Connor is practicing law at 932

Prudential Building, Buffalo, New York. His residence
address is 153 Lancaster Avenue, Buffalo, aay. AN

¥I\\\S A wh

New York.

SAMUEL Epwarp ‘TYLER with the
Kimball-Tyler Company, Baltimore, Mary-
land. His residence address is 1724 Bolton
Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

is

STANFORD L,. SCHEWEL is working in the
Office of Price Administration, Washington,
D. C. His home is 3817 Peakland Place,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

1941

RicHArp R. Parsons has been appointed
assistant in the Prosecuting Attorney's Of-
fice in McDowell County. His address is Box 1031,
Welch, West Virginia. He says: “All the men in the
office are law graduates of Washington and Lee and
quite naturally we feel a common bond. The others are
Thornton G. Berry and Jack Marinari.”

JounN DuncAN RayMonp is worki | .or Newell-
‘mmett, Inc., an advertising agency, in the research de-
partment. His residence address is 33 Glenorchy Road,

New Rochelle, New York.

THomAS GrEorGE Morris is with the Mitchell Steel
Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. His residence address is 3047
Lischer Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

RALPH Epwarp LEHR is with the National Bank of
Commerce. San Antonio, ‘Texas. His home address is 119

Paseo Encinal, San Antonio, Texas.

GEORGE BIGGER Kerr is working as a claims investi-
gator for Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in Boston.
His permanent address is Cherry Hill Hoad, Parsippany,

New Jersey.

Louis S. Scuurtz, B.A., "40, member of the Phi
Gamma Delta Fraternity, was serving as a first lieutenant
with the Philippine Scouts at the time of the final sur-

render, and is now, presumably, a prisoner of war.

 

ERNEST Woopwarp, II, home on his first furlough
since joining the Army, after taking his bar examination,
was admitted to practice before the Kentucky Court of
Appeals. He was introduced to the court by his father,
Ernest M. Woodward.

“41,

“it’s bleak, barren,

Don Buck has been in the Army since February,
He can’t say where he is except that
and windswept (official U. S. Army permissible descrip-
tion. )””

Art CARMAN is terminal manager of the Gowanda
Union Bus Terminal, operated by the Greyhound Lines,

Buffalo and Erie Coach Company, West
ie Ridge Lines, Inc., and Edward Motor:
a Transit Company. Also he is the Travel
Bureau manager handling airlines, steam-

ship, bus and sightseeing tours for all parts
of the United States, Canada, and Mexico.

fy Gow anda is 32 miles south of Buffalo. New
York.

1943

GENE FREDERICK DRAKE gives his ad-

dress as Ellington Field, Houston, ‘Texas.

Catvin Huston East is now attending
Washington University of St. Louis. His
address during the school session is 45 Aber-
ia Place, St. Louis, and.in the summer months 105
West 35th Avenue, Gary, Indiana.

L. P. EAGER, JR., is now attending the University of
Wisconsin. His address there is 630 N. Lake St., Madi-
son, Wisconsin.

RicHARD SEARS NEWLIN is with the American Roll-
ing Mill Company, Middletown, Ohio. His address is 248
Yankee Road, Middletown, Ohio.

WittiAM Herpert Ross is with A. H.
Company, Covington, Kentucky. His residence address
is 212 It. Mitchell Avenue, Covington, Kentucky.

Ross and

MicuagL McDonatp SELTzer is now attending the
University of Nebraska. His address is 2412 3rd Avenue,
Scottsbluff, Nebraska.

RayMonp HrENry SMALLEY is attending the Com-
merce School, New York University. His residence ad-
dress is 104 Brewster Road, Scarsdale, New York.

Rosert LONG STEIN is in business with his father in
Cumberland, Maryland.

PETER Brown HorrMan is a student at Kenyon Col-
lege, Gambier, Ohio. His residence 3123
Miami Road, South Bend, Indiana.

address is

[ 24 |

 

 

The Alumit v*s —

  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

FEDERAL WAR AGENCIES require
men and women trained in engineering,
physics, metallurgy, meteorology,
che. istry, and other fields. With
American ideals at stake, your energies

must be turned to war work.

See the Civil Service Employment
Opportunities at first- and second-class
post offices. Ask for application blanks
and send a record of your qualifications

to the Commission today.

fim the TOOLS OF WA

. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Washington, D. C.

 

 

 

 

