wes

| 2RARY OF cneyyy
rr
Vinee RCN rok oa 4

Pee

NOVEMBER, 1945

 

 

Perch, «
ole 15)

W317 al
VAL Ao.
CSer-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

We Shall Honor Them

(The President's Page)

OR ONE TIME I shall use this space to present a mat-

ter of pure sentiment, of the deepest and the most delicate
sentiment of my heart.

When all records have been made complete, it will ap-
pear that we have lost approximately 120 former students
in this costliest of wars. Some of the boys are still listed as
“Missing” and may, by the mercy of God, yet be spared to us.

It happens that nearly every one of those boys has been
a member of our student body in the fifteen years of my
connection with the institution; it happens that I knew them
and called them friend.

If it were in order, and if I had room on this page, I
could try to suggest the admiration we have for every one
of these men. I could even indicate the history of my per-
sonal friendship. This one, for example, is the son of a
lady who has been for many years a member of our staff;
this one worked his way through college in my _ office;
this one is the nephew of a man to whom I am extremely
close; ten or a dozen of them, little “buddies” of my own
children, came into my home at will and went on, when
they were so disposed, into my refrigerator. I could extend
this page indefinitely, remembering with pride every boy.

Thinking of them I know the price we have paid for
what we glibly call our blessings. I know now that every
time we draw a sigh of relief because the war is over and
is victoriously over, every time we thank God that the
hideous peril which blasted other countries was not vis-
ited upon us, we are paying tribute to those boys. I know
we owe to them an infinite debt.

Somehow I cannot bring myself to think of these boys
in the past tense. With clumsy approach and with futile
words, but with tremendous honesty of conviction, I have
tried to say to the parents of these boys that in a real
sense the glorious young lives go on and on. I know what
I am saying. Just as one of their friends, for example, |
confess they are much with me. Often they are my com-
panions on a long, tedious trip; sometimes they greet me,
suddenly greet me, at a familiar campus spot. (‘They shall
not grow old, as we that are left grow old.”) They help
me. They rebuke my sluggish immobility and they try to
rescue me from selfish complacency. They make me want

to be a better man.
* -* x

What I am eager for, almost desperately eager for, is
that not only the name and the memory but also the in-
fluence of these boys shall be saved for us, shall be made
a part of the indestructable assets of Washington and
Lee. As succeeding generations come and go upon these
green stretches, what could we present of finer inspira-
tion than the story of these young students who also
walked the grassy ways and then gave everything that
other boys might know a world of happiness and of peace?

Whatever we do for them must be worthy. We cannot
bring as tribute to their memory, or as enforcement of
their influence, something that is cheap, something that
is transient, something that is not consistent.

From the final chapters of two of these boys I have
found a grand suggestion. Jerry is one. He earned his

college expenses by working in the alumni office—and
incidentally made about all A’s. He went to the war and
was killed. He had no estate whatever except his insur-
ance, but out of that amount he left us $500 as a scholar-
ship fund, a gift to other boys forever.

Jim is the other boy. One of the most brilliant students
who ever put foot on this campus. Jim, too, went and was
killed. Then his father and his mother set up a memorial
scholarship; there will always be some deserving boy, some
promising boy, to realize his ambition—in the name of Jim.

I cannot escape the feeling that this idea is probably
the best one, to have here perpetually in the name of
every boy we lost, and for the honor of every one, sep-
arately and individually, a scholarship that means oppor-
tunity for another fine boy.

I happen to be among those parents who received safe-
ly home their sons. I have, of course, an inexpressible
sense of gratitude for that fact. I don’t know a_ nobler
way to show that gratitude than to do something in honor
of the boys that didn’t come back. I don’t know a better
way to render that honor than the way Jerry and the par-
ents of Jim have showed us.

* * *

In a large and a true, if yet an undefined, sense this
memorial, and other symbols of lasting memory, must
be recognitions also of the boys who came back. Cer-
tainly we could never forget the obligation to them, our
sense of the distinction they have conferred upon us, not
less than our gratitude that they were given back to their
loved ones and to us. They will go on from strength to
strength, and in the light of their achievement reflect ra-
diance upon Alma Mater. Concerning them we may apply
the thought of that comment from the Great Teacher:
By these fruits, we shall happily be judged.

But those 120 who shall not come back again to the
circle of their hearts’ affection or to the campus of their
merry youth, their work is done. Or is it really done?
While we grieve for them, do we not have a summons
from them? I think I still hear those young voices; I think
that we on this campus who once gave, with kindest inten-
tion, some instructions to them now have a mandate from

them.
* * *

We are laying plans for the Bicentennial of 1949. We
shall celebrate two hundred years of service (not many
schools have that privilege), but no service could be more
valuable than what these boys have done. We shall try
to strengthen ourselves for the years ahead, but we have
no richer strength than the memory of these boys.

As a part of this Bicentennial, we shall certainly—and
without apology—invite contributions to make the worthy
memorial.

Approaching this great observance, I have naturally
sent my mind far and wide, across the past and into the
future. I come always to one conclusion, that this is the
first item, this is the supreme obligation: We shall honor
them.

Ae @s4< fm ¢

President

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, '27, Ho-
tel General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, ‘14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G. Young, ‘40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 2lst
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, '37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge
Sale, '24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Companv

Chicago, Ilinois—William Fowler Symonds,
’33, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Il.

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, '07, 1426 Clay
Street

ee North Carolina—John L. Crist, '13,

x 1045

Cleveland, Ohio—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Carl V. Harris, ‘28, P. O.
Box 667

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12. 320
East Grand Boulevard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, ‘21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miami, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,’29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,'25,
1211 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., °39,
Kentucky Home Life Building

Lynchburg, Virginia—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr..
°30, Krise Building

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
'37, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. Grimley, ‘21, 7
North Broad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, '30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,’31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jf. 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
por ‘t, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg, West Virginia—Claude P. Light,
‘06, Court House

ee tan Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
7 422 Warden Drive

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

nies aie P. Robinson, ’10,
ark Buil

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

Richmond, Virginia — Stuart Sanders, ‘31,
Sanders Brothers Paint Company

Roanoke, Virginia—W. Courtney King,’21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15.
505 Brady Building

St. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, ‘32.
5142 Wes’ minster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntington, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer, '36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland

Washin es D. C.—Lt. (j.g.) Frank T. Park-
er, Jr., '29, U.S.N., 1530 Arlington Annex

ee Virginia—Sydney G. White, ’43

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XXI NOVEMBER, 1945 No. 1

 

Editor Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Peesaen i se eee Joun W. Drye, 1920
Vice-President......... THos. S. KirKPATRICK, 1913
Secretary................ Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer............. P. C. Wuittock, 1929

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Rosert P. Hopson, 1914
Ki Wi iiams, 1915
Joun W. Drye, 1920
J. W. Miiner, 1915
P. C. WuitLock, 1929

THos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913

LEON W. Harris, 1915

Our Cover

With the Rising Sun polished off, Skipper Foxy Moffett,

B.A.’42, will return here for an engagement with Blackstone

and Coke. The ebullient Foxy, a lieutenant junior grade,

commands a Coast Guard vessel which took part in New

Guinea and Philippine landings. It would appear that he
captured a Jap regiment single-handed.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“The Road Back”

By Frank J. GILLIAM, Dean of Students

2? September, 1945—That date marked a significant turn-
ing in the history of the University. The summer term
had seen a record low in attendance since the War Between
the States, with just forty-one students enrolled. No great in-
crease was expected for the opening of the fall session. The
closing of the war in the Pacific, however, brought an en-
couraging spurt in applications for admission. The 197th
session was formally opened with a registration that, while
still small in numbers, was heartening in trend and in the
percentage of increase over recent semesters. A total of 140
students registered. Of this number 53 were entering Wash-
ington and Lee for the first time and 87 had had at least
some previous work here. Of the new students 40 were fresh-
men and 13 were men with some college
work. The School of Law enrolled twelve
students as compared with two registered
in the spring.

Thirty seven veterans entered during
the first week, and probably half a dozen
more are exepected during October. The
veterans present an increasing cross-section.
Taken at random one found the following
varied backgrounds; a captain who had
finished high school nine years ago, had
been in business for four years, and now,
after four years in the army, was enrolling
for the two-year special course in Business
Administration; one of our own students
who left in the middle of his sophomore
year in the spring of 1943, completed his
flying missions and was discharged this
summer; a sergeant who had been in an
engineering college before the war, had had
many months in a German prison camp, and
was now entering Washington and Lee for
commerce; one of our own students re-
turning for his senior year, a major in the
Air Corps with sixty flying missions to his
credit; another flyer who had finished one
year of law here now taking up that course
where he had left off.

Veterans who have returned to the Uni-
versity since the closing in the spring are
the following: Charlie Belcher, Billy Bowman, Gene Bur-
cham, Jack Crist, Frank Di Loreto, Billy Forrestel, Floyd
McKenna, Reginald Pettus, Louis Rehr, Bill Richards, Chad
Smith, Dick Spindle, Julius Stombock, Cullen Wimmer, Roy
Witte, Sheppard Zinovoy, Willard Keland, Edward P. Lyons,
and Malcolm Tenney.

It is noteworthy that the choice of most entering veter-
ans is in the fields of commerce or law, rather than in lib-
eral arts, although a number of the younger men are re-
turning to complete their Bachelor of Arts work. The large
number of young alumni who have married while in the ser-
vice is indicated by six of the returning students bringing
their wives with them. The University has offered the wives
of the married students the privilege of attending University
classes, without credit and without fees.

The return of faculty members is still somewhat retarded.
Major Almand Coleman, head of the accounting department,

 

Frank J. Gilliam

is the only member of the faculty to return from the armed
services this fall, but arrangements have been made for a
number to begin work in February when increasing en-
rollment will require their services.

To house tne students the University is operating four
fraternity houses as University Residence Halls. The Phi
Kappa Psi and the Lambda Chi Alpha houses have exclu-
sively freshmen, while the Zeta Beta Tau house has fresh-
men with a few upper classmen. The Pi Kappa Phi house
contains upper classmen, with a large number of veterans
included. Freshmen take their meals at the Phi Kappa Psi
house, with the largest number of upper classmen eating
at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house, which Miss Margaret
Wilson is operating independently. Mrs.
Howard Barclay, the beloved house mother
at the Phi Kappa Psi house, was taken ill
at the opening of the session and her place
was taken by Mrs. Cynthia Massie, known
to many Washington and Lee alumni. Mrs.
Leckie Kinnear is the house mother at the
Lambda Chi house, and the places at the
other two house will be filled shortly. All of
the residence halls are staffed with upper
class counselors. Apparently more fraternity
houses will shortly have to be opened as
residence halls for the additional students
returning.

Extra-curricular activities are still nec-
essarily largely on a war-time basis, but a
return in many branches is not far off. The
Forensic Union and the Christian Council
are functioning; The Columns still substi-
tutes for The Ring-tum Phi; trips over the
mountain to Randolph-Macon and Sweet
Briar are running since gas is freely ob-
tained. Fall dances are being planned.

Intra-murals will maintain the same high
standard of interest that has existed even
during the war. There will be no intercol-
legiate football this fall, but if at all possi-
ble, basketball and baseball teams will ap-
pear, as well as in some of the minor sports.
Material is scant, and a return to pre-war
athletic prestige in contests won can certainly not be ex-
pected this season.

Alumni will be glad to know that, in the opinion of ob-
servers long on the campus, there has not been the slightest
weakening in the efficiency or influence of the Honor System.
The student leadership has seemed to recognize the need
for determined effort in this respect during the shifting
conditions of war times and has more than met its obligations.

The Army School for Personnel Services dropped in en-
rollment in the October class to 700, from a high of around
1500 in the early summer. November will likely see the en-
rollment down to 400. Entirely unofficial opinion is that the
School will probably not be operated here after the first of
the year. Its contribution to Washington and Lee and to
Lexington during the years of depleted enrollment would
be difficult to exaggerate.

Indications already exist that the semester opening in

Ln

eee

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

February will find at a minimum more veterans back. A
reasonable number of freshmen will enter, even with Selec-
tive Service still continuing. If the action of Congress permits
eighteen-year-olds to begin college work, there will be a
sizeable freshman class; but as most boys coming to college
finish their high school work in June, the real increase in the
regular entering class will not be felt until June or Sep-
tember. With these prospects and the altogether encouraging
evidences in the opening days of the present session, the
University is manifestly moving ahead toward the recon-
struction of an even greater Washington and Lee.

 

The Alumni Board of Trustees held its semi-annual meet-
ing at the University on November 10, 1945, with the follow-
ing members present; John W. Drye, ’20, R. P. Hobson, ’14,
J. W. Milner, ’15, P. C. Whitlock, ’29, and Leon W. Harris,
"£5;

 

MacDonald Honored by British

Overseas 33 months, having served in Africa and in
Italy, Lieutenant Colonel Robert E. MacDonald, ’30, has been
recently appointed Honorary Member of the Military Di-
vision of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
in recognition of the countless occasions he has helped the
British Engineer Services in the discovery of Italian sources
of supply and in the sharing of those which he has developed
primarily for American use. Colonel MacDonald wears
the Mediterranean Theatre Ribbon with three Battle Partici-
pation Stars and was awarded the Legion of Merit for ex-
ceptional meritorious conduct in the performance of out-
standing services in Italy. He is procurement officer, En-
gineer Section of the Peninsula Base Section, the main
Army Service Force in the Mediterranean Theatre. Home
address: 3829 West Pine Boulevard, Saint Louis, Missouri.

 

Sgt. Alfred C. Junkin, B.A. ’29, B.S. ’38, LL.B. ’40

 

Alfred Junkin Has Been Awarded
the Distinguished Service Cross

For extraordinary heroism in action last May 17-18 on
Okinawa, the Distinguished Service Cross, the nation’s sec-
ond highest combat award, has been presented to Staff Ser-
geant Alfred C. Junkin, B.A. ’29, B.S. ’38, LL.B. ’40. When
the platoon leader was killed in an attack on a hill north of
Shuri, Sergeant Junkin, who had been wounded, assumed
command and remained with the men until he could with-
draw his platoon to new positions in the morning. His pla-
toon suffered heavy casualties and finding the men short of
ammunition and water he crawled under severe machine gun
and mortar fire to the platoon’s former position in order
to salvage these direly needed supplies. At dawn the second
day he found that he had only eight riflemen and two ma-
chine gunners who were not wounded. At noon of that day
the remainder of his company advanced to his position. Al-
though he had been wounded twice in this battle he chose to

f remain with his men until he had placed all the men from
Ee ‘ the support platoon in the positions that his platoon had
i ; bs ie . previously occupied and had given the commanding officer
Lt. Col. Robert E. MacDonald, 41 of his company complete information about the enemy and

Receiving Legion of Merit from Brig. Gen. Francis H. Oxx the defense of his position.

[5]

 

 

         

Bo

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

The Late Dr. William Dana Hoyt

 

Dr. Hoyt, Biology Head, Dies

Dr. William Dana Hoyt, founder of the University’s De-
partment of Biology and head of it since 1915, died at Uni-
versity Hospital, Charlottesville, on September 24. Dr. Hoyt
suffered a heart attack a year ago, but was able to resume
teaching until last February when he had a second attack.
Since then he had been receiving treatment at the Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Hospital here and at University Hospital.

Funeral services for Dr. Hoyt were conducted on Septem-
ber 27, in Lee Chapel by the Rev. Dr. J. J. Murray, pastor
of the Lexington Presbyterian Church, and burial was in
Lexington Cemetery.

Surviving Dr. Hoyt are three sons: Dr. William D. Hoyt,
Jr., A.B., ’32, and M.A., ’33, secretary of the Maryland His-
torical Society; Staff Sergeant Southgate Y. Hoyt, B.S., ’38,
Memphis, Tennessee; and Captain Robert S. Hoyt, 39, of
Fort Myers, Florida. Three sisters also survive. His wife,
the former Miss Margaret H. Yeaton, died here in Septem-
ber, 1943.

During the thirty years of his professorship at Washing-
ton and Lee, Dr. Hoyt gave depth and breadth to the De-
partment of Biology. In so far as biology is a part of the
curriculum for pre-medical students, Dr. Hoyt helped make

the University one of the ranking pre-medical schools of the
country. Born at Rome, Georgia, in 1880, he received bachel-
or of arts and master of science degrees from the University
of Georgia, and in 1909 received his Ph.D. from Johns-Hop-
kins University. Dr. Hoyt did tutorial work in biology at
the University of Georgia and from 1902 to 1909 he was a
scientific assistant in the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries at Beau-
fort, North Carolina. Then after a year of study at the
University of Heidelberg and research at Naples, he was an
instructor in biology at Rutgers from 1910 to 1912. From
1912 until his appointment as associate professor of biology
here in 1915, Dr. Hoyt was a fellow at Johns-Hopkins. The
University made him a full professor in 1920.

Most of Dr. Hoyt’s writings were on algae and heredity.
He published a study of “Marine Algae of Beauford, North
Carolina, and Adjacent Regions” and proved the alternation
of generations in algae. Throughout his residence in Lexing-
ton he was deeply interested in a study of the marriage of
the feeble-minded in this region and the high birth rate
among them.

An alumnus who studied under Dr. Hoyt here says that
he was “by far the clearest and most patient professor |
had in my freshman year. In the laboratory, where he did
most of the supervision in person, he would answer the most
asinine questions without his urbanity ever failing him.
However, Dr. Hoyt met his peers face to face and dealt
sharply with them. But he was always gentle with his in-
feriors. He was a perfect and an exquisite gentleman.”

The alumnus recalls that during the bitter controversy
over heredity in the early ’20s, Dr. Hoyt taught the facts of
biology so quietly and so clearly that there was never any
worry among his students about it.

A few years ago Dr. Hoyt thought about retiring and
planned to as soon as a capable sucessor could be named
to carry on the work of the department which he founded.
He was on a leave of absence when he died.

Although his first interest lay in biology, Dr. Hoyt was a
student of international affairs and of sculptoring. He was
related to Woodrow Wilson whom he visited both before
and after Mr. Wilson went to the White House, and he
ardently supported the League of Nations. In his latter
years, and perhaps through the interest of his wife, Dr.
Hoyt took up sculptoring. Mrs. Hoyt was a painter and
sculptor whose work was frequently exhibited at Gloucester,
where the Hoyts had a summer home, and at many other
places in the East.

 

Deaths of the following alumni have been reported since
the In Memorium pages were made up for the press:

1888

Erhard Guenther died at his
Texas, September 25, 1945.

1912

Judge Neal L. Thopmson, LL.B. °12, commissioner of
the United States Court of Claims, died October 23, 1945.
His home was at 3241 Valley Drive, Park-fairfax, Virginia.
Before entering government service, Judge Thompson was
a member of the law firm of Thompson, Williams and
Thompson in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and served as Judge
of the Court of Appeals of Tennessee from 1925 to 1934.

1927

Charles Mayhugh Wood of Danville, Virginia, died there
February 6, 1944,

home in San Antonio,

| o ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

1872

Judge I. W. Stephens died at his home in Fort Worth,
Texas, July 17, 1945, at the age of 94. A student here under
General Robert E. Lee’s Administration, Judge Stephens
treasured his memories of his college days and was always in-
terested and helpful as an alumnus.

1874

Rev. James Harvey McCown, aged ninety-three years,
died at the home of his niece in Lexington, Virginia, on
August 13, 1945.

1891

Benton S. Rude died at his home in Delmar, New York,

August 2, 1945.
1893

Dr. Harry White Myers, missionary in Japan for the
Southern Presbyterian Church for 45 years, who was im-
prisoned, tortured and nearly starved before his repatriation
in 1942, died at the home of his daughter in Bronxville, New
York, on August 5, 1945. Dr. Myers was born in Lexington,
Virginia, on May 20, 1874. He graduated from Washington
and Lee with the B.A. degree in ’93 and the M.A. degree in
04, Phi Beta Kappa; received the honorary degree of D.D.
in 1912. While teaching at the Presbyterian Theological
Seminary in Kobe, Japan, he and his wife became prisoners
of the Japanese soon after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Six
months later they were exchanged and arrived in the United
States on the first trip of the Gripsholm after this country
and Japan started exchanging prisoners of war. He is sur-
vived by his widow, Mrs. Grace Field Myers, two married
daughters and two sons, Henry W. Myers, and Wentworth
Field Myers, Washington and Lee, ’20.

1897

Rev. Harry Bertram Lewis died at his home in Columbus,
Ohio, June 26, 1945.

William R. Perkins, LL.B., 97, honorary LL.D., ’29, died
at the Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Virginia, on June 15,
1945.

A native of Nelson County, Virginia, Mr. Perkins entered
Washington and Lee University, where he received the
bachelor of laws degree in 1897. He was honored with the
doctor of laws degree from his Alma Mater in 1929.

A well-known New York attorney for forty years and
senior partner of the law firm of Perkins, Daniels and Per-
kins became personal counsel for James B. Duke and _ his
brother, Benjamin N. Duke, in 1913. He represented the Duke
families and numerous Duke philanthropic and industrial
interests since that time. He was active in the power devel-
opment of Lake St. John and the Saguenay River in Quebec
and the organization and growth of the Duke Power Company
in the Carolinas. He was vice-president and a director of
that firm and vice-chairman of the board of trustees of
the Duke endowment and a trustee of Duke University.

He was general counsel for the American Cyanimid
Company of which he was a member of the executive com-
mittee of the board of directors. For many years he was
general counsel in this country for the British-American
Tobacco Company. He was a member of the New York
State Bar Association, the Association of the Bar of the
City of New York and the American Academy of Political

 

The Late William R. Perkins, ’97

 

and Social Science, and also held membership in the Uni-
versity Club of New York, the Virginia Society, the Southern
Society and the North Carolina Society.

From 1912 until 1941, Mr. Perkins had his home in Upper
Montclair, New Jersey. Since 1936 he had spent an increas-
ingly greater part of his time on his country estate, Rock
Lawn, Bedford County, Virginia, near Lynchburg. Although
semi-retired from business he actively supervised and di-
rected the New Jersey tax litigation in which Doris Duke,
daughter of his old friend and client, was recently involved,
resulting in a notable victory for Miss Duke.

Although his business connection with the Duke interests
kept him in close touch with the affairs of Duke University,
he had an abiding affection for his Alma Mater, which was
evidenced by a provision in his will that Washington and
Lee University receive a bequest of $150,000.

At the time of the death of Mr. Perkins, Dr. Gaines
said: “Washington and Lee is grieving for the passing of a
son who was among her most distinguished and noblest
alumni. By the integrity of his character and the warm
sympathies of his heart, not less than in his intellectual
power and unfailing sense of value, Mr. Perkins embodied
the best of our traditions and of our aspirations.”

1898
William A. Adair died at his home in Lexington, Vir-
ginia, September 27, 1945.

Judge William D. McSheen, LL.B., ’98, died several
months ago at his home in Newport, Tennessee.

beg

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1902

J. Powell Royall, 71, dean of the Tazewell bar, died
August 14, 1945, at his home in Tazewell, Virginia.

1903

C. R. Pilkington, B.A., ’03, LL.B., ’07, died at his home
in Orlando, Florida, on July 1, 1945.

1904

Kenneth I. McKay died August 6, 1945. Member of the
firm of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson, and Ferguson, three
of the partners being graduates of the Washington and Lee
Law School, much of his time and activities was given to the
Lykes Brothers far flung shipping and cattle operations,
the Lykes Brothers also being graduates of Washington and
Lee. Mr. McKay never held a political office but his counsel
and advice constantly was sought by those seeking to elect
the best possible men to local, state and federal posts. He
was a member of the American, the state, the Tampa and
county bar associations and the American Judicature asso-

ciation.
1906

Thomas M. Semmes died July 12, 1945. His home was in
Ozark, Alabama.
1907

Paulus Powell Glass: of Lynchburg, Virginia, died in a
Richmond, Virginia, hospital on July 8, 1945.

1908

H. N. Clendening died on January 7, 1945, at his home
in Inwood, West Virginia.

Harry Hairston Darnell died at his home in Huntington,
West Virginia, September 26, 1945.

1909

Judge Edwin C. Caffrey died July 26, 1945, shortly after
a heart attack while playing golf on the Homewood Golf
Course at Spring Lake, New Jersey. Born in Newark, New
Jersey, July 15, 1885. Judge Caffrey studied law at New
York University, and then entered Washington and Lee
Law School and was graduated with the LL.B. degree in
1909. After practicing law in the New Jersey Courts he was
appointed to the Essex County Common Pleas Bench in
1921 and was reappointed in 1926. In 1927 he was elevated to
the Circuit Court, and later to the Supreme Court. Judge
Caffrey was recognized as an authority on the laws of evi-
dence and trial practice. He was law instructor at New Jer-
sey Law School and New York University Law School. He
was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Kappa Sigma and Delta
Theta Pi fraternities and the Essex County, New Jersey
and American Bar Associations. President of the Washing-
ton and Lee University Alumni Association from 1923 to
1931, he was interested and helpful in University affairs and
a frequent visitor to the campus.

1912

William Francis Barnard died at his home in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, May 26, 1944.

1915
Sayers F. Harman died August 28, 1945, in Tazewell,
Virginia.
1919

,o.n f.u_usius Wz.tt died at his home in Lynchburg,
Virginia, July 31, 1945.

1923
James Upshur Hyde, of Buchanan, Virginia, died in a
hospital in Roanoke, Virginia, July 2, 1945.

1932
John Hill Morgan, curator of American painting at Yale
University, died recently at his home in Farmington, Connec-
ticut. Mr. Morgan received the honorary degree of LL.D.
from Washington and Lee as of April 12, 1932. He evidenced
an unusual degree of interest in the University and re-
quested that he be carried on our alumni files as a member of
the class of °32, to which he made an annual contribution
through the class agent.
1945
Robert Eugene Ridenour, III, died at his home in Con-
cord, North Carolina, on August 27, 1945, after a lingering
illness.

CASUALTY

1934
James Wright Ccechran was killed in Germany on March
3, 1945.

Marriages

1938

Lieutenant Robert Miles Nason, USNR, to Beverly Fay
Cooper, August 19, 1945, at the Post Chapel Presidio of San
Francisco, California.

Dr. Albert Compton Broders, Jr., to Margaret Cornelia
Trusler, July 1, 1945, in Indianapolis, Indiana.

1941
Corporal George Ladd Gassman, U.S. Army Air Force,
to Jean Mary France, on July 14, 1945, at St. Wilfred’s
Church, Warrington, England.
Lieutenant George Keith McMurran, USNR, to June
Beale Saunders on July 7, 1945, in Newport News, Virginia.

Lieutenant William Curtis Soule to Alice Virginia Wall,
August 11, 1945, in Wake Forest, North Carolina.
1942

Lieutenant John Alexander and Frances Aycock Cobb
were married September 13, 1945, in Montgomery, Alabama.

1943
Albert D. Darby, Jr., to Miss Elizabeth Horner von
Gemmingen, August 19, 1945, in Monumental Episcopal

Church, Richmond, Virginia.

Lieutenant (j.g.) William Prentiss McKelway to Miss
Elizabeth Paxton Locher in the St. Mary Chapel of the
Washington Cathedral on August 29, 1945. Matron of honor
Mrs. James D. Leland, (nee Anne Twombly of Lexington),
and three of the ushers classmates of Lt. McKelway, James
Berry, Charles Devine and Haven Mankin, made this mar-
riage of special interest to Washington and Lee alumni.

Lieutenant William Stillwell Wilcox to Lois Jane Steidt-
man on August 15, in the chapel of the First Presbyterian
Church, Atlanta, Georgia.

1944

Lieutenant William James Forrestel and Lucy Bertram
Plank were married August 11, 1945, in Waynesboro, Virginia.

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1945
Herbert Lee Cover, II, to Miss Matilda Elizabeth Wolfe
on June 24, 1945, in Duncan Memorial Church, Berryville,
Virginia.
Staff Sergeant Charles Howard Working, USAF, was
married to Genevieve Ann Johnson on August 8, 1945, in
Baltimore, Maryland.

Ensign Willard Franklyn Searle, Jr., to Margaret Early
Jackson on July 7, 1945, in St. John’s Episcopal Church,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Births

1933
Mr. and Mrs. Claude A. LaVarre are the parents of a
baby daughter, Harriette Anne, born August 26, 1945.

1935

Lt. and Mrs. Purnell Diggs, Jr., are the parents of a
daughter, Mary Kristofa, born June 20, 1945.

1937

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Radcliff, 502 Maple Avenue,
Trenton, New Jersey, are the parents of a son born July 9,

1945.
1939

Rev. and Mrs. Arthur E. Basile are the parents of a
daughter, Susan Jane, born June 28, 1945. Address: South
High Street Baptist Church, Columbus, Ohio.

1940

Marine Lt. and Mrs. Sion Augustus Faulk are the parents
of a girl, born June 7, 1945.

1941

Lt. and Mrs. W. S. Hummers, Jr., are the parents of a
son, William Strong Hummers, III, born July 22, 1945.

Dr. and Mrs. Walter Jeter Wilkins are the parents of a
daughter, Luanne Wilkins, born July 26, 1945.
1943

Lt. and Mrs. Melvin Carl Johnson are the parents of a
daughter, Rebecca Lynne, born June 19, 1945.

 

Teaches Dentistry for Forty Years

Dr. Richard Lee Simpson, Washington and Lee, '91-’92,
A.M., D.D.S., F.A.C.D., was born at Fincastle, Virginia,
April 21, 1873. He received his early education from the
public and private schools of Fincastle and at the preparatory
school of Montvale, Virginia. A scholarship from the latter
enabled him to attend Washington and Lee. He devoted one
year to teaching public school and then spent three full
sessions at the University of Maryland School of Dentistry.
As a dental student he won many honors for scholarship
and technical skill, and graduated in 1896 with the highest
standing in a class of fifty-four members.

From his earliest years Richard Lee Simpson was of a
studious nature and showed keen interest and ability in art
and mechanical problems. These early inclinations devel-
oped through training and experience to produce the skilled
artist and scientist in his chosen profession.

 

Dr. Richard Lee Simpson, ’91-’92

 

In 1896, Dr. Simpson began the practice of dentistry in
Fincastle and continued to practice there until 1904, when he
moved to Richmond. Six years following graduation from
Baltimore he was appointed to membership on the Virginia
State Board of Dental Examiners and in 1904 was elected
President of the Virginia State Dental Association. He be-
gan teaching dentistry in 1905 at the University College of
Medicine. He was Dean of the Dental School of the Univer-
sity College of Medicine from 1910 to 1913 and Dean of the
School of Dentistry of the Medical College of Virginia from
1913 to 1915. His services as a teacher of dental subjects
have been continuous from 1905 to the present date; he now
being Emeritus Professor of Clinical Dental Practice at the
Medical College of Virginia.

In recognition of his many contributions to dentistry he
has justly merited the following additional honors; President
of the Richmond Dental Society; the honorary A.M. degree
from his alma mater; fellow of the American College of
Dentists; and charter member of the Richmond Chapter of
the Omicron Kappa Upsilon, honorary dental society.

Other manifestations of Dr. Simpson’s versatility are his
contributions to the civic and religious life of his city and
the many instruments and techniques he has presented to
his profession.

In 1901, Dr. Simpson married Miss Elma Walker of
Lynchburg, Virginia, and at present they are living at their
home 2913 Hawthorne Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Today finds Dr. Simpson in his office working with the
same skill, interest and enthusiasm of years ago, applying
daily one of his pet philosophies of life, “That Which is
Almost Right, Is Wrong.”

Soe

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“Quality Is the Password”

The following article on Charles A. Pritchard, B.S., 34,
is reprinted from the June, 1945, Martin Star, house organ of
The Glenn L,. Martin Company, Baltimore, Maryland;

“QUALITY IS THE PASSWORD”

“It would seem that Charlie Pritchard is destined to be
a ‘rassler’ in one way or another. Not so many years ago
when he was a student at Washington and Lee University,
he was on the wrestling team and annexed the Southern
Conference 155-pound cham-
pionship.

“Today he’s still rassling
though his opponent is not a
gent with hair on his chest and
mayhem in his heart, but lots
and lots of the aluminum parts
which go to form an airplane
(Martin bombers in particu-
lar), and Charlie’s job is wrest-
ling to maintain top ‘quality.’
Before the war is over, he’s
likely to have some new dia-
dems to add to his 155-pound
crown, too.

“Up until a few months
ago a lot of people around
the Martin plants wore badges
on which were printed the
word, ‘inspection.’ Charles
Austin Pritchard was and is
Assistant Manager of the In-
spection Department, though
today it’s known as ‘Quality
Control.’

“It’s up to him to see that
quality is maintained in all
things that go into Martin
bombers, to devise ways and
means of discovering flaws and defective parts and get em
on the scrap heap in a hurry. There’s no doubt about it, even
the high quality of the past has been much higher in recent
months and woe unto the part that’s not up to snuff.

“Born in Dunmore, West Virginia, on August 3, 1912,
Charlie Pritchard went to public grade and high school and
thence to Washington and Lee, from which he graduated
with a B.S. in Business Administration in 1934. As a young-
ster Charlie had engaged in the usual wrestling which is a
part of small fry life and its possibilities as a recreation
blossomed into full flower at Washington and Lee where he
had expert coaching to teach him tricks of the trade until
then unknown.

“Alas and alack, though, Charlie wrestled too much and
a yen for a career in the Navy went glimmering when, upon
graduation, he was turned down in his physical. The doctor
discovered that the bone-bender had practically put his
liver where his heart should be; his backbone resembled a
country road in its lack of straightness and several other
things were not strictly kosher.

“So Charlie grabbed himself a job with the RFC in
Washington and did accounting work there for a couple of

 

Charles A. Pritchard, ’34

years. This finally palled and he went with Eastern Air
Lines as a traffic representative in New York and Washing-
ton, which is a high-class name for a ticket seller and general
bally hooer for passenger air travel.

“By 1938 his liver had finally settled back to where it
was supposed to be; his backbone read from north to south
and he made the grade with the Navy as an aviation cadet.
Preliminary training at Floyd Bennett Field preceded grad-
uation from Pensacola in 1939 with a pair of shiny new wings
over his left breast pocket.

“A year of duty in San
Juan, P.R., with a patrol
squadron, then a transfer to
Norfolk, where he was as-
signed to one of the first two
squadrons equipped with
PBM-1 Mariner patrol bomb-
ers. Charlie fell in love with
those ships right away and
they’ve been as close to him
ever since as pork and beans.

“The PBM-Is were soon
followed by improved PBM-3s
and Charlie went to Banana
River as an instructor on the
newer ships. Then back to
Norfolk with the unit which
was accepting Mariners upon
delivery from the factory. In
the spring of 1943 he was sent
to Middle River as head of
the Navy’s acceptance unit
here and was doing such a
darned swell job that the Navy
and the Martin Company fig-
ured he could do even better
if he were returned to civilian
life and given the job he still
holds. He was a lieutenant at the time of his release.

“While on duty at Norfolk he met the Mrs., who was
then Martha Upshur, and they have a two-year-old daughter,
Penelope, whose quality is assured with a father who is as
nuts on the subject as is Charlie.

“There are a few leisure hours in the Pritchard work
schedule, but when a couple of them do pop up consecutively, .
you can pretty well rely on it that Charlie is on the rear
end of a fishing line—and he’s not particular whether the
location is the ocean, a river or a pond. It’s conceivable
that he may make a few casts in the goldfish bowl some
time, though that may be carrying a hobby too far. Still,
you've heard the one about the guy who was trolling off
Florida...”

While a student at Washington and Lee, Charlie was in-
terested in many extra-curricular activities; a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma and White Friars;
President of Finals in his senior year; member of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body; staff of The Ring-tum
Phi; Commerce Club; Foreign Relations Club; Wrestling
Team for four years, being Co-Captain in his senior year; and
155-pound Southern Conference Champion in his junior year.

[ 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1878 1895
|
Rev. R. F. Campbell, : 4 John P. Walker, Class
D.D., is Pastor-Emeritus of Class notes a the five ee of THE ALUMNI MAG- Agent for 1895, General
the First Presbyterian | AZINE, beginning with October each year, are com- Land Office, Boise, Idaho.
Church, Asheville, North | piled from the letters received by the Class Agents dur- His son, Major Samuel
Carolina. Both of his sons | ing the previous spring and summer. In this issue we Sranch Walker, 3rd, is in

are graduates of Washing-
ton and Lee, Ruffner Camp-
peu. LEB... *13,° and Lt
(j.g.) Robert F. Campbell,
Jr., B.A. 42.

1879

are using as many notes as possible about alumni serving
with the armed forces, feeling that much of this in-
formation will soon be out of date. Home addresses
are given in most cases with the hope that letters
will be written to them and forwarded promptly.

the Patent Law Division of
O.M.G., Washington, D.C.,
and a son-in-law, a_ lieu-
tenant in the Navy, has re-
cently left this country for
the Pacific area.

 

 

John M. Glenn has a

new address at 45 Park Avenue, New York 16, New York.

1883

John T. Ireland, Bourbon Hotel, Paris, Kentucky, says;
“IT am enjoying good health for me who will be 82 years
old on the 6th of September, 1945. My most pleasant mem-
ories are of the days I spent at dear old Washington and
Lee.”

1886

Dr. John V. McCall is now retired after’ forty-seven
years in the Presbyterian ministry in Oklahoma and
Texas. He says; “I recall quite distinctly General Curtis’
(Lee) remark to me as I bade him goodbye on the railroad
platform in June 1886. He said ‘Mr. McCall, go back to
Texas and send us a few good boys’. I replied ‘Why few,
general, why not many?’. He replied, ‘Washington and
Lee, in the future, as in the past, would like to lay the
stress on the quality of men she sends forth, rather than
the number.’ ”

1888

Capt. G. D. Letcher, graduate of Virginia Military In-
stitute and LL.B., Washington and Lee, is a_ faithful
alumnus of both schools. He served as Captain in the
Field Artillery in World War I. His son, Col. John S.
Letcher, U.S. Marine Corps, Law ’27, has had many ci-
tations and awards in World War II. (See
note °27-L,)

1892

Reese Turpin is a member of the law firm
of Turpin, Behrendt & Searing, New York
Life Building, Kansas City, Missouri. He says
he has just had the long delayed pleasure of
meeting Dr. Gaines personally, who called on
him while in the vicinity of Kansas City.

1893

Dudley D. Pendleton is still carrying on
as Sales Engineer, with offices in the Renshaw
Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. His old-
est son, Dudley, Jr., is working in production
engineering in Camden, New Jersey, and his
second son, James, is now a B-29 Pilot.

 

1899

W. E. Davis says he has never lost his interest in
Washington and Lee although fate brought his family to
Lexington, Kentucky, where his five children entered the
University of Kentucky. He thinks that his class should
begin to plan for a special reunion in Lexington in 1946,
His address is 420 West Sixth Street, Lexington, Ken-
tucky.

1900

Lynwood R. Holmes has retired as Manager of Furn-
ess, Withy & Company, Ltd., after working with them for
the past twenty-eight years. His home is at 250 South 13th
Street, Philadelphia 7, Pennsylvania.

1902

C. S. McNulty practiced law for thirty-seven years in
Roanoke, Virginia, and has now been on the retired list
for eight years. His two sons are in Germany, Col. Wil-
liam A., with General Patton, and the younger, Lt. Charles
S., Jr., ’37, with General Hodges. Address: Box 1782, Roa-
noke, Virginia.

Henry B. Grabill, after many years service as a teach-
ing missionary of the Presbyterian Church in China, is
teaching psychology and history in the Junior College for
Girls, Greenbrier, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He has a
son who is an aviator, a daughter, wife of a chemical en-
gineer, and a younger daughter, now in med-
ical school.

1903

Thomas Ball is practicing law in Los
Angeles, California, with offices in the Title
Insurance Building. Writing to his Class
Agent, Rev. Cary R. Blain, he says; “I recall
many very happy associations of a former
day when we were getting ready to go out
and conquer the world, and you as well as
the world, to conquer sin. I hope you have
been sucessful in both cases.”

Judge Francis V. Reeves is General Coun-
sel and Secretary of the Scovell Manufactur-
ing Company. This company is doing an
enormous business and all the members of the
executive organization are under considerable

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

pressure. He says he expects to be blessed with an additional
grandchild soon. Home: 28 Sands Street, Waterbury, Con-
necticut.

Rev. Cary R. Blain, Class Agent for 1903, after sev-
eral years in North Carolina, has returned to Home Mis-
sion work in the mountains of West Virginia. His address
is Circleville, West Virginia.

Dr. John W. Warner states that there is no diminu-
tion in the crop of babies arriving in Washington, D. C.
He is working hard ushering them in at 1835 Eye Street,
N.W. His oldest boy is in the Navy. He says if he ever gets
any time off he is going to get his friend, the Editor of the
National: Geographic Magazine, to organize an exploration
to find out where Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina (the
home of his Class Agent) is, and write it up in that publica-
tion.

1905

Dr. T. D. Sloan, after many years service as a Pres-
byterian Missionary, teaching in Medical Schools in China,
and later Superintendent of the Flagler Hospital, St. Au-
gustine, Florida, is now retired and is living at 128 Chancellor
Street, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Harvey C. Crabill is practicing law in Monroeville,
Indiana. He has recently had an illness from which he is
now recovering and after a short vacation in his old Vir-
ginia neighborhood along the Shenandoah River, expects
to be in good shape again. His son who is a major in the
Air Corps, and was historical officer for the Air Service
in Europe, has been assigned to one of a small group
of officers charged with getting German education back
into a proper groove. He was teaching in Indiana Uni-
versity in 1941 when he volunteered for military service.

D. A. Bradham, Class Agent for 1905, is a member of
the Workman’s Compensation Commission of the State of
Arkansas. His youngest son was reported missing in the
New Guinea area on February 2, 1944. Seven men left the
base in a bomber and none of them has been heard from
since four minutes after taking off.

1906

B. J. Mayer, member of the law firm of Lovejoy and
Mayer, LaGrange, Georgia, says he has no news to re-
port except that his son is in the armed services and has
been overseas in the Southwest Pacific for the past twelve
months.

William L. Hoge writes that William L. Hoge & Com--
pany, Heyburn Building, Louisville 2, Kentucky, was
formed to do some war work that seemed very worth-
while and they have found it extremely interesting. He
hopes for the 40th reunion next year.

H. Claude Pobst, attorney, Grundy, Virginia, has two
sons in the service; one in the Philippines and the other
in radar work, expecting to return to the South Pacific;
son-in-law on his way to the South Pacific, and his wife
and two children living with Mr. Pobst. He still takes an
active interest in law and life.

Brent E. Clark is a state highway engineer and hotel
owner, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Oklahoma adopted him
in 1908. He owns and operated the James Hotel and has

a long-time job as an engineer with the State Highway
Commission of Oklahoma, deals in real estate and is busy
and happy with a wife and three children. His son Brent,
Jr., and one son-in-law are with the 6th Army in Ger-
many.

Charles A. Dunlap, farmer and trucker, Wellington,
Kansas, is busy hauling lots of material and serving troop
trains, one recently to the San Francisco Conference.

Basil Manly has resigned his position as Chairman of
the Federal Power Conimission in Washington, D. C., to
become president of the Atlanta Gas Light Company, At-
lanta, Georgia. He has had an extended and distinguished
career in government service. He was the director of the
Commission on Industrial Relations in 1914-15 and joint
chairman with William Howard Taft of the National War
Labor Board during World War I. He was appointed to
the Federal Power Commission in 1933, was vice-chair-
man from 1933 to 1936, and chairman from 1942 to 1944,

J. H. Howell, Postmaster, Waynesville, North Carolina,
says he was in World War I and has not practiced law
since; has been Postmaster since 1934. He has a son in
this War in Italy and he himself has been serving in the
State Guard, in command of a Regiment. He attended a
class reunion in 1926 and would like to attend one in 1946,

L. J. Desha, head of the Chemistry Department at
Washington and Lee, is much interested in a class reunion
in 1946, and is also much interested in the Bicentennial
Celebration of the University now being planned for 1949.
Details are lacking now, but he thinks if conditions are not
ripe in 1946, there would be no objection to all classes hold-
ing reunions in 1949 regardless of the multiple of five years
plan.

John Pilkington, 1538 May Street, Jacksonville 4, Flor-
ida, has a son. who is now a Lieutenant at Naval Air Sta-
tion, Jacksonville.

Harvey L. Handley continues as Highway Engineer
with the U.S. Public Roads Administration. He says the
only change in his status during the past year has been
that his grandchildren have now increased to four. His
son, H. L., Jr., is with the Army in the Philippines.

1907

Donald W. M. MacCluer is Pastor of the Rose City
Presbyterian Church in Portland, Oregon. Reports that
Portland is badly congested on account of war work and
shipping to Russia and the Pacific. His young son is gun-
nery officer on an ammunition ship. He was at Iwo and
Okinawa.

Col. Harry W. Miller is in the department of Mechan-
ism and Engineering Drawing, College of Engineering,
University of Michigan. He reports a terriffic load of
Army, Navy and Marine Corps students, as well as a con-
tinuous school for the Judge Advocate General’s Depart-
ment at the University of Michigan. The University is now
preparing to take on some eighteen thousand students and
he estimates that at least three thousand of them will be
in the department of engineering. He is greatly concerned
about the problems of returning veterans, which will re-
quire great patience on the part of the administration.

[ 12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1908
(Notes by Class Agent, Alan P. Lee)

J. Clivie Carpenter, Jr., is president of the First Na-
tional Bank of Clifton Forge, Virginia. His son, First
Lieutenant Deverton Carpenter, died of injuries in the
Kuropean war area on March 23rd. Lieutenant Carpenter
was a member of the class of 1937 at Washington and Lee,
was in the Signal Corps, and was with General Patton’s

staff until the time of his death. He had received the
Bronze Star during the campaign in France. Clivie’s
younger son is now recovering, without serious injury,
from a crash landing of an Army Liberator plane in
Nevada this spring.

William S. Graham is located in the Citizen’s Bank
Building, Norfolk, Virginia. He writes that his interest

in the cause of the Alumni Fund is deep and increasing.

J. Peyton Hobson, Jr. is an attorney, member of the
firm of Harman & Hobson at Pikeville, Kentucky. He has
two sons, Peyton III, officer in the regular Navy; Clyde,
in the Army in Germany; and one daughter who is at-
tending Centre College and plans to study law. Peyton is
proudest of Peyton IV, now six months old, the son of the
Navy officer—another candidate for the Class of 1965.

Elmer W. Somers is an attorney at law at Accomac,
Virginia. He writes, “It does not seem like thirty-seven
years since we marched into Lee Memorial together (those
were happy days at Washington and Lee).” Elmer has
two daughters.

Ben T. Smith is the Principal of B. T. Smith & Com-
pany, accountants and auditors in Lynchburg, Virginia. He
writes that to contribute to the Alumni Fund, “is indeed
a privilege and an honor—Life never becomes so compli-
cated or difficult that I do not have time to let my mind
drift back to the happy days in Lexington.”

Philip P. Page is still with the Chicago Journal of
Commerce. He writes, “My two boys are in the service,
the older one after one and one-half years at Washington
and Lee is now in France. The younger boy is taking a
radio course at Oklahoma A. & M.” For the past two
years Phil has been very active in publication of the Chi-
cago Journal of Commerce, but writes that he expects to
take things a bit easier from now on since some of his
associates have come back from service.

John Lykes is Vice-President of Lykes Brothers, In-
corporated, located in Tampa, Florida. He contributes reg-
ularly to the Alumni Fund and shares the enthusiasm of
his brother, Joe (1909), who is a University Trustee.

Robert S. Keebler is on the legal staff of the O.P.A.
in Washington, living at Chevy Chase, Maryland. He has
four children; Robert, Jr., the oldest was at Washington
and Lee two years ago and is now in service in the Pacific
and plans to study architecture. Bob’s second boy is grad-
uating from high school this year and plans to attend
Washington and Lee after the war is over. Mrs. Keebler is
a graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman's College at
Lynchburg and the two girls are also alumnae of that
school. Bob writes, “My hope for the nation—that we
shall realize the ideals of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin
D. Roosevelt by leading the world into an era of peace,
justice, and progress such as only the devout have prayed
for, only the wise have foreseen, and only the bold have
dared to achieve.”

1909

Rev. Harold Houston Leach retired from an active pas-
torate in 1942 and now makes his home at 127 Terry Street,
Staunton, Virginia. His only son, Sergeant Hunter M.
Leach is in the Air Corps and has recently been transferred
from Italy to Denver, Colorado.

O. R. Price is temporarily located at Boca Raton,
Florida, with the Post Engineers at the Air Base, but for
the duration only.

Reuben Ragland is a member of the law firm of Rag-
land, Kurz and Layton, Consolidated Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida. His oldest son Captain Reuben Ragland, Jr.,
is still in China, where he has been for more than a year
as pilot in a bomber squadron with the 14th Air Force.
His youngest son, Robert B., will graduate from Duke
Medical School in June and will intern at Duke Hospital.

Ben F. Kagey is in the real estate business in Effingham,
Illinois. In addition to his local business he has been one of
three members of the Real Estate Examining Committee
for the State of Illinois, having served on this committee
since 1893, receiving appointments from three Governors of
the state during that period.

Dr. S. Gwynn Coe is head of the Department of History
and Political Science at Florida Southern College, Lakeland,
Florida. His two children, both girls, have graduated from
Florida Southern with an A.B. degree.

Henry Stafford Caldwell is practicing law in Tallahas-
see, Florida, with offices in the Independent Life Building.
He writes very little about himself, but independent re-
search discloses that he was at one time Mayor of his na-
tive town, Jasper, Florida, was State Attorney for the
Third Judicial Circuit from 1913 to 1921, and has a gen-
eral practice which carries him over a good portion of the
State. In 1929-1930 he was Grand Master of Masons in
Florida and in 1930-1931 was Grand High Priest of the
Royal Arch Masons of Florida.

Judge H. L. Hooker has been a member of the State
Corporation Commission for the past twenty years. His
son, Corporal Henry Lester Hooker, Jr., is in the South
Pacific.

On the Bench. The members of ’09 Law now on the
bench are Judge H. Lester Hooker of the State Corpora-
tion Commission, Richmond, Virginia, and Justice Daniel
K. Sadler of the Supreme Court of New Mexico, Santa
Fe, New Mexico.

1910

Lt. Col. Albert S. McCown, widely known in national
and public health work, was recently named head of the
Port Dispensary and Industrial Medicine Officer for the
San Francisco Port of Embarkation, large Army ‘Trans-
portation operation on the West Coast. He received his
medical diploma from Johns-Hopkins on the battlefield
in World War I. Before World War II he served as Na-
tional Director of the Medical Health Service, American
Red Cross at Washington. Returning to Army Service, he
was assigned to Supreme Headquarters Allied Expedition-
ary Forces and went to England, then to Europe in the
G-5 (Civil Government) group of General Ejisenhower’s
organization. On his return he spent several months in
Washington and then was assigned to San Francisco.

[13 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John M. Bell is still with the Rio De Janeiro Tramway,
Light and Power Company, Rio de Janeiro, where he has
been living since 1910 except for two years in the Ser-
vice during the First World War. He says; “We here have
perhaps been more fortunate than you at home during the
years of the present World War, in that, while having a
bit more of a ringside seat in some respects, we have felt
less of the hardships than you have.” Both of his children
are in the Service—his son, J. M., Jr., is a Lt. Commander
of the Civil Engineering Corps of the Naval Reserve, and

his daughter a Yeoman of the Waves now stationed in
Washington.
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro Motor Car Company,

Greensboro, North Carolina, gives no news of himself but
says his sons are located as follows; Larry W., Jr., 37,
First Lieutenant, Pacific Anti-air force, overseas 25
months, Ben E., °39, Staff Sergeant, seven battle stars—
Presidential Citation, now in Italy, overseas 34 months,
F. G., °37, First Lieutenant, Heavy Bomber Group, in the
Pacific.

Rev. Bronson L. Wood has recently exercised the
preacher's prerogative, accepting a call to Iron Gate, Vir-
ginia. He says he has pleasantly renewed acquaintance
with Frank Wysor, ’11, “who has a spendid record of long
standing as an eye, ear and throat specialist in his native
town of Clifton Forge.” Mr. Wood's son has recently gone
overseas as co-pilot of a B-25.

Russell L. Frink is practcing law in the Graham
Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He says they are so busy
trying to run a railroad and win the war, that he does not
have time to write a class letter.

Robert J. Denny is practicing law in Nicholasville,
Kentucky. He is rejoicing over the return of his son-in-
law from the Burma-China war area, who is a pilot of a
P-51, Mustang Fighter, has 116 missions, and has come
back in good shape except for fatigue.

Grover C. Worrell is practicing law in Mullens, West
Virginia. His only son is in the South Pacific where he
has been for more than a year. His is a repair ship and
his ability to draw such an assignment was due to his
knowledge of electricity.

Wilbur L. Tilden withdrew from the practice of law
after thirty-four and a half years and is now devoting all
of his time to citrus fruits. Finds it a strenuous but inter-
esting and satisfactory change. His two sons-in-law are
in the Service and his daughters and a young grandson are
living at home for the duration. He is hoping to get back
to the campus soon for the first time since 1911, and to
make actual personal contact with some of the old boys.
Address: 805 Florida Bank Building, Orlando, Florida.

J. Granville Johnston is a farmer and surveyor and
lives on Route Number 3, Lexington, Virginia. He says;
“Here’s hoping that before another year rolls around his-
tory will have recorded one more ‘Unconditional Surren-
der’ in time to have one real Victory Alumni Reunion in
1946, and that all the old boys who are left can attend.”

1911

Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt has returned to his home town,
and is living in his ancestral home in Anderson, South Caro-
lina, after an absence of 26 years; 4 years in China, 9 in

Pennsylvania, 1 in Mississippi and 7 in North Carolina.
His son, Lieutenant Samuel O., Jr., ’41 is stationed at the
American Embassy, Havana, Cuba, and a second son, (born
in China) is a lieutenant in the Air Corps, and flew a B-17
thirty missions over Germany before returning to this country
in October. A daughter “Burt”, Registered Nurse, is just
finishing up at Woodrow Wilson General Hospital in Staun-
ton, Virginia; Jim is a Private First Class with General
Hodges First Army Group in Germany, and Rich, an aerial
gunner (Navy) still in training at Hutchinson, Kansas.
Dr. Pruitt’s Class Agent is wondering if any alumnus has
more children in service of our country.

Dr. John G. Herndon has been professor of Govern-
ment at Haverford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania, since
1928. He asks that his address be changed to 1 College Lane,
Haverford, Pennsylvania. His son, Lieutenant Richard M.
Herndon, *41, has been serving overseas for a long time.

Major General Clements McMullen writes that his Class
Agent's letter finally reached him in the wilds of New Guinea.
He went to that theatre in 1944 and has seen the develop-
ment of the entire Philippine program, and thinks it is
well in hand.

Cleaton E. Rabey, Attorney at Law, National Bank of
Commerce Building, Norfolk, Virginia, writing in April 1945,
says; “After Peace, and I hope it will be soon, I am
hoping to attend a meeting of our Class in Lexington and

see you and many of the boys with whom I spent many
happy days.”

Judge Herbert B. Gregory, Justice of the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia, says the work of the Court seems to
enlarge and grow more perplexing under the changing con-
ditions. His two sons are in the Navy. The youngest has
been in over three years, and the oldest boy, W. & L. °40,
has been in the Navy for two years and was on Okinawa
when Judge Gregory’s letter was written.

Roger M. Winborne, Bernhardt Furniture Company,
Lenoir, North Carolina, writes his class agent, Luther Scott,
“If even a majority of our alumni were as vitally interested
in the welfare of Washington and Lee as you are, Dr. Gaines

would have very little to worry about.’ His son, Private
First Class, Roger M., U. S. Army, W. & L. °46, is now
at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North

Carolina.
1912

James Somerville, after many years service as Com-
mercial Attache in the Embassy in London, is now Com-
mercial Attache to Teheran, Iran. He has been busy with
the machinery of setting up a separate office in a place
where the little details of life take up a large part of one’s
time.

Tom Glasgow, president of Glasgow-Stewart & Company,
automobile supplies, Charlotte, North Carolina, was a vis-
itor to his home town, Lexington, in the early spring. He has
five children, the oldest boy being in the Service, the second
boy, now 18, and three girls ranging from a college gradu-
ate to high school age.

Dr. Edward Lyons has been with the Parke Davis Com-
pany in Detroit, Michigan, for the past twenty-five years
He is no longer doing chemical work and is now in the
patent and literature end of the business. He is the pres-

[ 14 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ident of the Association of Professional Chemists. He was
a visitor to the campus in September.

Lieutenant Colonel Paul A. Rockwell is still serving in
France and has recently been decorated with the bronze
star. He hopes to be back in the States by fall. Home ad-
dress: 46 Forest Hill Drive, Asheville, North Carolina.

Rev. Harry S. Coffey is superintendent of the Danville
District Conference of the Virginia Methodist Conference,
Danville, Virginia. He has four children, two boys and two
girls. One of his sons is a Naval Aviator.

C. Lee Ordeman, The Mead Sales Company, Incorpora-
ted, 230 Park Avenue, New York, 17, New York, says he
has given up golf for gardening, and has one son in the
Navy and another in prep school in Andover.

Wallace P. Willson, 204 Mountain Avenue, S.W., Roan-
oke, Virginia, had been in business in Shanghai, China, for
many years and was on his way home in 1941 when the
war started. He was interned in Manila in Santa Tomas,
and later in Los Banos, for approximately twenty-one
months, and arrived on the second trip of the Gripsholm
in December 1943. He plans to return to China when the
was is over, but in the meantime is in Government service
in Roanoke.

Byron Ballard has been practicing law in Lansing,
Michigan since September, 1916, and is a member of the
firm of Shields, Ballard, Jennings and Taber, with offices
in the Olds Tower Building. His only son, Captain Thomas
Byron Ballard, 45, was presented the Chinese Grand Star
of Honor medal for outstanding service to the republic of
China.

W. S. Dunn, Bland, Virginia, says he is now the only
lawyer in “the great commonwealth of Bland” so they have
kept him pretty busy; sometimes he has to represent both
sides in litigation, but has never reached the point where he
can get a fee from both sides. His only son “happens to be
a pilot in both the Army and Navy Air Corps.” He has been
stationed in Italy, but is now on his way to the Pacific
Theatre. He has been awarded the Air Medal, Silver Star
and the British Distinguished Flying Cross. His father
is very proud of him but more than anything else just now,
would like to see him back home.

Francis J. Heazel is a member of the law firm of Heazel
& Redmond, Asheville, North Carolina. He has three chil-
dren, a married daughter living in Washington, and a son,
now a captain in the Infantry in the Pacific area.

1913

Robert Kern Williams is with the War Department
in a civilian capacity, and has been since the fall of 1940.
Is now with the Ammunition Division of the Office of the
Chief of Ordnance. He was recommended for a commission
shortly after Pearl Harbor, but the medics said no, al-
though he feels fine and is thankful to say he can still get
insurance. Both of his sons are in the service and he has
a grandson and a granddaughter. Home: 1508 Crittenden
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, Lawyer, Peoples Bank Build-
ing, Lynchburg, Virginia, recently elected a member of the
Alumni Board of Trustees, writes; “I am awaiting the end
of the war to enter my son in Washington and Lee. From

a
og

ie ; tt :
. ef nie el |
_ ag
: * ’ 2

a

ot 7.

 

Major C. D. McCabe, ’20 (Fourth from left)
(See Class Note)

 

the time I could talk my father indoctrinated me with the
desire to enter Washington and Lee, and I have done the
same with my son. It will be wonderful to see the war end
and to have the University again pursue its splendid tra-
ditions of instruction to the young men of the country.”

Lieutenant Colonel Carter Glass, Jr.. U.S. Army Air
Force, has received two diplomas in Lee Chapel, the first in
1913 and the second in the summer of 1943 when he was a
student in the School for Personnel Services. When his
class letter was written in May he was on duty with the
Hellbird Group, XXth Bomber Command in India.

Beverly D. Causey is living in St. Augustine, Florida,
address, Box 429, and spends a part of each year at his
place “Elsing Green,” King William County, Virginia. He
has three sons and two sons-in-law in the service.

Henry B. Goodloe is practicing law in the neighboring
towns of Charlottesville and Crozet, Virginia. He holds
a commission of Lieutenant Colonel in the Officers Reserve
and also in the Virginia State Guard, but was turned down
for service in World War II. His daughter is a student at
the University of Virginia and commutes back and forth
with her father to Crozet.

Junius W. Pulley has practiced law in Courtland, Vir-
ginia, ever since his graduation from Washington and Lee
Law School. He married in 1913 and has five children, three
boys and two girls. His son Franklin Bert, °44, is a gunner
on a SB2U (Hell Diver) and has dropped bombs on Tokyo,
Formosa, Manila, Iwo Jima and the Chinese coast, and
received a medal for heroic conduct.

Howard P. Macfarlane is a member of the law firm of
McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson of ‘Tampa,
Florida. Mr. McKay, who died August 6, 1945, was an
LL.B. of 04, Mr. Macfarlane, LL.B. ’13 and Mr. Jackson,
LL.B. ’08. Mr. Macfarlane’s son Lieutenant (j.g.) Hugh
Campbell, *40, is in the U.S. Navy, somewhere in the
Pacific.

1914

Horace Booth, Jr. is engaged in the oil business, with
offices in the National Bank of Commerce Building, San
Antonio, Texas. He says there are quite of few Washington
and Lee Alumni in San Antonio, and that they meet together
quite often. He has a son, William Ewing Booth, who is serv-
ing in the Navy, and was at Pearl Harbor when the Japs came

[15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in. He is still serving in the Pacific and has married a beauti-
ful Australian girl by the name of Joan Wendell.

Lee R. Grabill, Jr., is with Legal Department, Patent
Division, Dupont, Wilmington, Delaware. His home ad-
dress is 2303 Saymoure Road, Wilmington 56, Delaware.

Henry N. Barker, Class Agent for 1914, is practicing at-
torney, with offices at 10 Sixth Street, Bristol Tennessee.
He is married and has a son and daughter, 20 and 17 re-
spectively. His son is with the Eighth Air Forces and
served as co-pilot on a Liberator in combat duty over Ger-
many.

Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy is serving with the Army at
Chungking, China. His home address is 605 East Joppa
Road, Towson, Maryland.

Leonard Newman was a recent visitor to the campus.
He is now Prosecuting Attorney, New Martinsville, West
Virginia.

1915

Leslie S. Anderson has been in the Leaf Tobacco busi-
ness in Mayfield, Kentucky, for 26 years. He has a son in
the South Pacific, a daughter in Wellesley and another
daughter at home. For the past four years he has been de-
veloping a herd of Polled Herefords and he says the cattle
and an occasional fishing trip take all his spare time. He
says any alumni interested in helping him catch up with his
fishing will please write.

Major K. L. Shirk is Provincial Commissioner of Apuania
Province in Italy. which contains the cities of Messa and
Carrara, and sees plenty of Marble. He has had the oppor-
tunity of seeing his son twice. K. L., Jr., B.A. °43, is a lieu-
tenant in the Air Corps and has been awarded the European-
Africa-Middle East Ribbon with one battle star.

Battle Bagley has a son in the Navy who has not left
the States, a son-in-law wounded on Iwo Jima, but not ser-
iously, another son in school at Davidson, and a married
daughter and an eighteen-year-old daughter and _ sixteen-
year-old son at home. Battle starred at quarterback on what
we old-timers consider Washington and Lee’s strongest
eleven, with Cy Young, Bob Ignico, Ted Shultz, Buck Sweet-
land, Jiggs Donahue, and other luminaries of first magnitude.
Later Battle gained prominence as an official, serving once in
the Rose Bowl.

Russell Rhodes reports little change in his activities
during the past year. He is still general manager of the
Tulsa, Oklahoma, Chamber of Commerce. His daughter, and
grandson, little Billy Hebler, are now living in Columbus,
Georgia, where his son-in-law, Lieutenant Robert F. Hebler,
is an infantry officer.

Maurice Ridenour, large-scale manufacturer in Hagers-
town, Maryland, is necessarily engrossed (and enmeshed)
in the thousand and one difficulties with priorities, etc., that
beset nearly all businessmen in these times of global warfare.

Grady H. Forgy, Little Rock, Arkansas, is still engaged in
Public Relations work for the Petroleum Industry (API) in
the ten Southern States and Washington. His son, Grady
H., Jr., °42, is a lieutenant on an Attack Cargo Vessel (AKA)
in the Pacific, and has been in service since graduation.
Another son, John R. (Buddy), °44, is a Sergeant in an
English Coast Battalion, now in Marseilles, France. He says:

“W. & L. was, and will be the greatest school anywhere to
the Forgys.”

Clyde H. Miller has been practicing law in Dayton, Ohio,
since 1922. His only son is in the Service, now stationed on
one of the Dutch East Indies Islands and his wife and child
are living at his home. Address: Third and Broadway, Day-
ton 7, Ohio.

Major N. C. Evans has been on duty in Washington
since June, 1942, and says he seems doomed to fight it out on
this front. He says; “Of course I do get into the field oc-
casionally but I am strictly a paragraph trooper of the
famous chairborne corps.” His son-in-law is with the 8th
Air Force—an operations officer at present after having pi-
loted a B-24 in the worst air raids over Germany last spring.
He has enough medals for the family. His son is in the Air
Corps.

1917

Jim Faulkner is Supervisor of the Southwestern Depart-
ment of the Fire Adjustment Bureau, Incorporated, of
Dallas, Texas. His eldest son James Miles, Jr., received a
B.A. degree from Washington and Lee in 1940, and is now
in the Navy. He is arranging to send his youngest boy to
the University to finish his education just as soon as the
war is over.

Homer A. Jones is President and Executive Chairman
of the Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Vir-
ginia-Tennessee. His oldest son received an LL.B. degree
from Washington and Lee and is now married and living
in Bristol. His younger son is in the service.

1918

W. P. Daniel is Superintendent of New Albany City
Schools, New Albany, Mississippi. His son, John, °42, has
recently been promoted to Lieutenant senior grade U.S.N.R.,
and is now serving somewhere in the Pacific. His younger
son has just entered the Navy.

Allein Beall, Jr., is a Merchandise Broker in Helena,
Arkansas. His son, Allein, is now at Pensacola and received
his wings as a Naval Ensign in Aviation in May. Upton,
his “baby,” will enter the Navy immediately upon his grad-
uation. His daughter, Cornelia, married to a B-24 pilot now
in the Pacific, is living at home with her two sons, Jimmy
and Allein Graham.

Commander W. W. Sager is now chief surgeon aboard
the U.S.S. Sanctuary, a hospital ship with a capacity of 802
beds. His two sons are in the Navy, and a daughter, a stu-
dent at the Cathedral School for Girls in Washington, D. C.

William M. Marshall became executive Vice-President
in charge of the Spokane and Eastern division of the Seattle,
Washington, First National Bank on September 1, 1945. He
has been connected with this bank since 1924, when he be-
came a salesman in the bond department, and has held many
positions of importance with the bank since that time. Spo-
kane and Eastern deposits are listed in a recent bank state-
ment at $118,000,000.

1919

Captain Albert Murdaugh, U.S. Navy, has been awarded
the Croix de Guerre with Etoile de Vermeil for exceptional
war services during the campaign for the liberation of

[ 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

France. He also holds the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit
and a Gold Star in lieu of a second Legion of Merit award.
The Croix de Guerre was awarded for exceptional services
rendered during the invasion of Normandy in which Cap-
tain Murdaugh commanded a squadron of destroyers. Home:
817-26 Place, South Arlington, Virginia.

Dr. Harry E. Handley took his medical course at Johns-
Hopkins and devoted five years to training in hospitals and a
sojourn in the Panama Canal Zone as a District Physician.
Public Health had its appeal so he devoted four years to
that in Tennessee. In 1932 he came to New York as Assistant
Director, Division of Public Health, The Commonwealth
Fund, which position he still holds. He has two sons, the
older, born in Panama, has been in the service about two
years. He was returned to the States with a medical con-
dition from which he is now convalescing at Atlantic City.

Address: 188 Idlewood Road, White Plains, New York.

Sim B. Christy is still with the Sun Oil Company, in
Texas for ten years, and since that in Lansing, Michigan.
His son, Sim, III, is in the Army in Europe. Address: 548
Charles Street, Lansing, Michigan.

Arthur M. Cromwell is wholesale sales manager for
Consolidated Machinery and Supply Company, Ltd., Los
Angeles, California, and has to travel extensively all over
the United States and Canada. His son is flying torpedo
boats for the Navy. His son’s wife and ten-day old baby
girl are living in Los Angeles. Home Address: 4790 Mount
Royal Drive, Los Angeles, 41, California.

1920

Major C. D. McCabe is commanding officer of a Troop
Carrier Service Wing unit. This is supply and repair arm
for Troop Carrier planes and gliders which were used by the
First Allied Airborne Army in aerial invasions of Holland
and the Rhine. These same Troop Carrier planes and gliders
supplied the beleagured 101lst Airborne forces in Bastogne,
carried the paratroopers who jumped in Africa, Sicily, Italy,
Southern France and Normandy and have flown thousands
of front line supply and wounded evacuation missions in
between. Major McCabe was serving as air corps supply
officer for Service Wing units most of this time, traveling
by land and air to England, Ireland, Scotland, France,
Belgium and Holland securing all classes of supplies. Was
awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement that
resulted when two Troop Carrier groups supplied by him
had the best operational record and were consistently in
the best operational condition. In May 1945, he served as a
judge for the famous Joan D’Arc parade and festival held
in Orleans, France. Home: Box 2684, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Major Carl A. Foss, AUS, gives his home address as
68-10 108th Street, Forest Hills, New York, but gives no
news of his activities.

Col. Ran Cabell spent four and a half years with the
Coast Artillery after Pearl Harbor, on duty most of the
time as senior army officer at Joint Army-Navy Operations
at Norfolk and later at New York. He was retired in the
spring of 1945 and is now back at his home in Covington,
Virginia.

Fred M. Bailey is still‘in the real estate and fire insurance
business. “Not married. If the war lasts much longer I will
make it. Girls are getting plentiful.”” Address: 412 8th Street,
Huntington, West Virginia.

 

John D. Copenhaver, ’33
(See Class Note)

 

 

Henry Trotter is in the Ford-Mercury Sales Service
business in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. The day before his class
letter was written he had received a call from his son, Jack,
who had just been released by the Russians after serving
nine months in a prison camp. He said he had lost thirty
pounds, was feeling fine, and expected to be home soon. He
had had no message from home in the entire time he was
confined in the camp.

Glen Evins, formerly Manager of Lykes Brothers In-
surance Agency in Tampa, Florida, has been with the Fair-
child Aircraft Company in Hagerstown, Maryland, since
1943, trying to do all he can to get the war over. He has
enjoyed the work because he has been able to get back to
flying, which he had more or less given up. He says he has
had the privilege on several occasions of looking at Washing-
ton and Lee from the air, but no opportunity for landing.

J. W. McKown is in the furniture and floor coverings
business in Waynesboro, Pennsylvania. He has much to be
thankful for as his oldest son successfully completed fifty
missions as a radio gunner, flying with the 15th Air Force
from Italy and arrived home in October, safe and sound. He
is now with the Air Transport Command and has had three
trips to the Southwest Pacific.

1921

R. S. (“Monty”) Montgomery has been employed from
Chicago to New York City by: Goodyear Tire and Rubber

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Company, Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, The Aetna
Casualty and Surety Company, Seiberling Tire and Rub-
ber Company, Montgomery Ward and Company, Sears Roe-
buck & Company and now a distributor for the Automatic
Canteen Company of America. He has five children, John,
Tom, Jane, Sue and Bill. His home is at 215 Grampian
Boulevard, Williamsport 12, Pennsylvania.

Harvey Enloe, Jr., is Regional Director of War Man-
power Commission, 157 Peachtree Street, North East, At-
lanta 3, Georgia.

1923

Chaplain Judson B. Holloway is serving in the Pacific
area. His letter simply states “Aboardship.”” He has been in
the Navy for two years. His eldest son, Arthur, completed
fifty missions in the Fifteenth Air Force and is now in this
country; a daughter, June, has graduated from high school;
and another son, Ronald, is a freshman in high school.
Home: Care of Trinity Baptist Church, Marion, Ohio.

Joseph R. Long is associated with the law firm of For-
dyce, White, Mayne, Williams and Hartman, 506 Olive
Street, St. Louis, Missouri. Also, two nights a week and
quite a few week-ends, he dons a uniform and becomes the
Commanding Officer, Third Battalion, First Missouri In-
fantry, Missouri State Guard. He says; “I have heard re-
ports from others that the fish still bite in the streams of
the Ozarks, but all such evidence must be disregarded as mere
hearsay, since this business of being a combined lawyer and
soldier does not permit of a personal investigation.”

1924

Lieutenant John F. Hendon, U. S. Navy, is stationed in
Pensacola, Florida, where he has been since February, 1943.
His present assignment is Officer-in-Charge of Ground
Training in the basic training field for Aviation students.
He says; “We come in contact with the finest bunch of
young Americans in the country. During the past six months
I have selected a few outstanding students and tried to in-
terest them in completing their education at Washington
and Lee after the war.”

Commander J. P. Long, Jr.. MC, USMC, after a few
months service in the States, was sent to the South Pacific
where he had a varied service, first, in the F.M.F. as Medical
Officer in the Base Depot, Samoa (stationed in Pago Pago
of “Rain” fame), then as Regimental Surgeon of the 22nd
Marines. Following this he went to the U.S.S. Solace on
which he traveled throughout the South Pacific Islands, in
cluding New Zealand. After riding the Solace down to re-
ceive casualties from Tarawa he was detached in Pearl
Harbor where he stayed until September 1944, when he
was returned to the same station in the States from which
he went over-seas. He is now at the Naval Dispensary, Naval
Air Base, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Lieutenant Colonel J. F. Seals volunteered for the Army
in 1941, served at the Charlotte Quartermaster Department
for sixteen months and then was assigned to overseas, re-
ceiving a promotion to Major just before his departure.
Served in the China-Burma area for thirty months, first
as Base Quartermaster for a large Port of Embarkation,
then transferred to New Delhi where he was Director of
Storage and Distribution Division Officer of the Chief Quar-
termaster, Service of Supply. Returned to the states in the
spring and is now awaiting reassignment. Received his

promotion to Lieutenant Colonel, Q.M.C., while in India.
Now at Q.M. Repl. Pool, Camp Lee, Virginia.

Francis W. Plowman was elected a vice-president of the
Scott Paper Company, Chester, Pennsylvania, by its Board
of Directors on July 2, 1945. Scott’s general sales manager
and a director since July 1943, Mr. Plowman will continue
to head the sales activities of the company. He became as-
sociated with Scott Paper Company in 1928 and has gained
wide experience in several of its divisions. It was while he
was in charge of sales research and development that he
promulgated many of the company’s current sales plans
and _ policies.

Turner Rice is Vice-President and Trust Officer of the
First National Bank, Mobile, Alabama. He is married and
has a daughter who will be in high school next year. He
says; “Mobile has had more than its share of the trials and
tribulations of the war period, and being a port city, it’s
possible that we feel closer to the war than do many cities
further removed from things. Soldiers and sailors from a
dozen allied nations swarm the streets, and B-29’s and C-47’s
from and to the remote corners of the globe land and take
off at Brookley Field. It becomes quite casual to hear twenty
year old kids mention having been in Khartoum night before
last, or recount their hair raising scrapes on the Burma
India run.”

1925

Calhoun Holcomb was commissioned in the Navy in
June, and probably is out somewhere just now. Considering
that we are a group of “old men,” our class has done right
well in having a number of its members in the Armed Forces.

Allen Rushton is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army, but
fortunately has been stationed in his home town, Birming-
ham, Alabama.

Walton Rex is out of the Navy, and back at his old busi-
ness in Orlando, Florida.

Marvin Hummer, USNR, is back in Washington, after
having served for some time out in the Pacific.

Lieutenant George T. Clark, Jr.. USNR, writes his class
agent: “I am still in the Navy and still in the same billet
as assistant yard officer at the Naval Air Station, Miami.
However, in accordance with the Navy’s rotation program,
it is probable that I shall have a change of station in the
near future, and possibly duty at an advanced base. There
are less than twenty officers (including Waves and nurses)
remaining at this station who were on duty when I report-
ed on March 2, 1943. My duties have kept me so tied to my
desk that I have not seen nor had any contact with any mem-
ber of our class since I last wrote you.”

1926

Lieutenant Colonel Robert W. Moore is Deputy for per-
sonnel of the Central District, Air Technical Service Com-
mand in Chicago, and was overseas for twenty-five months,
assigned to Central District, ATSC in December 1944. He
entered the Service in June 1942. Home: 1304 Gallia Street,
Portsmouth, Ohio.

Commander Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., while serving
in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, was ordered
last summer to duty aboard ship. Saw duty in the South,
Southwest and Central Pacific Areas. In December he was

[ 18

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

promoted to Commander, and can now wear a “brass hat”
as soon as he gets where one can be purchased. His wife
and three-year old son are waiting out the war in Wheeling,
West Virginia.

1927

Marine Colonel John S. Letcher was recently presented
with the Legion of Merit for outstanding service while
commanding a field artillery group at Iwo Jima. “After
aiding in the planning of the attack, Letcher landed early
in the battle, and despite heavy enemy bombardment, di-
rected and coordinated artillery fire from the largest num-
ber of Marine battalions ever to take part in one operation.
His expert handling of mass fires permitted closer front
line support than had been previously realized. The citation
also pointed out that enemy counterattacks were suppressed
by our artillery under Letcher’s direction and his personal
valor and professional competency were responsible, in
great measure for the success of our forces.’” Col. Letcher
is the son of Captain Greenlee D. Letcher, LL.B. ’88, Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

Major William M. Pope has recently had an extensive
trip across these United States. He visited such delightful
places as Dallas, Texas, El Paso, Phoenix, and Los Angeles.
He says all this is very nice but he is looking forward to
the day when he can return to family ties and attend some
of those good old Alumni Meetings once again. Address,
Box 1299, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio.

Lieutenant T. L. Harris, (MC) USNR, has been in the
Navy for the past two years. Home: 155 Homewood Road,
West Los Angeles, California.

Commander Rhea Whitley, Wardman Park Hotel, Wash-
ington, D.C., has just returned from a tour of the Middle
East, India, and Ceylon, and has been promoted to a full
Commander for his outstanding work during the war. He
and Peggy have a three-year old daughter whose blonde
hair reminds you of her mother.

Major George D. Conrad wrote from Orlando, Florida,
where he was stationed as a combat intelligence officer in
the Eighth Air Force. George has been overseas. While in
Florida he has run into Bruce Draper, Sam Lawson, Newt
Black, and John Lewis.

Captain John DeWeese Carter of Denton, Maryland, is
with the U.S. Army and was stationed at Camp Pickett,
Virginia, where he was the trial judge advocate or the pros-
ecuting attorney for the general court martial. Our reports
are that John gave the German prisoners of war just pun-
ishment. Congratulations!

Lieutenant Colonel Garland H. Hayes, has been awarded
the Bronze Star Medal by the Commander in Chief of the
Mediterranean Allied Army Air Forces for “meritorious
achievement in the performance of outstanding duties from
Mach 15 to December 15, 1944.” Major Hayes served for a
time in North Africa with the Allied Control Commission,
but returned to the air force in March, 1944.

1930

Ensign Robert W. Mosley is aboard an assault cargo
ship. He is an Amphibious Boat Officer, handles the movies
aboard, is boat supply officer, and stands deck watch. Home:
1000 West 3rd Street, Apartment 9, Little Rock Arkansas.

 

Kenneth L. Keil, ’30
(See Class Note)

 

Kenneth L. Keil, class agent for 1930-A, is District Man-
ager of the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company. On June
27 he celebrated his fifteenth anniversary of service with
Penn Mutual. Widely recognized in insurance circles, he has
been elected National Committeeman in the National As-
sociation of Life Underwriters to serve the term from 1944
to 1947. He also has been elected for a term to the Board
of Directors of the Illinois State Association to serve until
1947, and served as president of the local Springfield Asso-
ciation from 1942 to 1944, after completing terms as secre-
tary and first vice-president. He has won many Company
honors and is a qualified member of the Quarter Million
Club. Address: 909 Myers Building, Springfield, Illinois.

Lieutenant Commander Julian H. Black is back in the
States after a year and a half in Europe. Home: 1016 16th
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Lieutenant James B. Merrick was called to active duty
in January “43. In May °45 he was serving as gunnery officer
and has for the past twenty months hit one or more times
practically all of the well-known places in the Pacific Area.
He says he used to dream about spending a few years in
the South Seas, but now would be willing to take that time
in Maryland or thereabouts, starting just as soon as prac-
ticable. Home: Crumpton, Maryland.

Major Murrel H. Kaplan writes from Leghorn, Italy.
He has been in North Africa and Italy for twenty-one

[19 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

months. He says one of the best week-ends he has had
on foreign soil was spent with Colonel John McNeel, B.A.
°31, and Captain Ned Waddell, B.A. ’30.

Lieutenant James Regan Roberts is now in Norton,
Connecticut, on the staff at a Naval Training School in ad-
vanced communications. He was in the Southwest Pacific for
20 months. Home: Clayton Road, Scarsdale, New York.

Corporal Page Tredway, Jr., on military leave from The
Chase National Bank, is in the office of the chief of finance,
Third Air Force, Tampa, Florida. He is also organist and
choirmaster of the Episcopal House of Prayer, Tampa,
Florida.

Lieutenant Commander Edward S. Graves, after serv-
ing as flag lieutenant on the staff of Vice-Admiral Theodore
S. Wilkinson, Commander Third Amphibious Force, in the
Philippines, has been promoted to his present rank and
is now stationed in Washington, D. C., Navy Department,
Room 3040.

1931

Lieutenant Colonel Reno R. Porter is now Chief of Med-
ical Staff Le Grande General Hospital, New Orleans, Louis-
lana.

Lieutenant Walter S. Wurzburger, who has been sta-
tioned in China with the 14th Army Air Force, was on his
way home in May, °45, as indicated by a letter from a mem-
ber of his family. We have had no further news of his arrival.
Home: 225 West 86th Street, New York, New York.

Captain Harold M. Weston was in Germany in June,
‘44, with General Omar Bradley’s infantry. He participated
in the invasions of Sicily, Anzio and France. Home: 225
Central Park West, New York, New York.

Lieutenant Commander Alex Vance had recently had a
change of station and the censors allowed him to say only
one word—‘Newfoundland.” Home: 1 Winter Street, Lin-
coln, Massachusetts.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Redmond B. Gautier, Jr., has been in
service for two years and is now on the Pacific Coast await-
ing further assignment. Home address: Care of Worley,
Gautier & Cannon, Langford Building, Miami, Florida.

Captain W. V. Rucker, U.S.A., writing from Augsburg,
Germany on June 13, 1945, says he has been overseas for
over two years. Home: 404 North Bridge Street, Bedford,
Virginia.

Master Sergeant O. Kenneth Hickman, in April 1945, in
Service Battery of the 544th Field Artillery, stationed in
the Philippines. Home: 757 Kirby Place, Shreveport, Louis-
lana.

Lieutenant Lauchlen Secord Palmer is Chief of Psychiatry
at the U.S. Naval Training and Distribution Center, San
Francisco, Treasure Island, California. Home: Willard, New
York.

Lieutenant John Pierce Armstrong, USNR, has been on
sea duty for thirty-six out of the past thirty-eight months.
Home address: Care of Rod Armstrong, Rogersville, Tenn-
essee.

Lieutenant Colonel Ben M. Ayars has been in France
since August 1944, and is now at La Havre. On May 16th

he was promoted to his present rank. Home: 229 Fayette
Street, Bridgeton, New Jersey.

Lieutenant Colonel John O. McNeel was promoted in
December °44, and at the same time received the Bronze
Star for his work and made head of the Medical Service
of the 170th Evacuation Hospital. He entered the service on
May 15, 1942 and has not been in this country since Novem-
ber 1, 1942. Home: 3 Oakhurst Circle, University, Virginia.

Donald S. MacGlashan enlisted in the Army after Pearl
Harbor, later served as a Field Director with the Red Cross,
and finally was put on the “inactive” list. He is now back
with A. H. Bull & Company, 115 Broad Street, New York,
New York. He is married and has a son about five years old.
Home: 33 Brookside Road, Darien, Connecticut.

Graham F. Gillock has received a medical discharge from
the Army and is now with the General Accounting Office in
Alexandria, Virginia. Home: 6 East Nelson Avenue, Build-
ing A, Apartment 303, Alexandria, Virginia.

1932

Lieutenant John R. Horner has been in the service for
three and a half years; two years at Newport, Rhode Island,
and for the past sixteen months has been in the South Pacific,
fourteen months at Guadalcanal. He is a full lieutenant in
the Navy, in charge of operations. Home: Box 225, Clarks-
burg, West Virginia.

1933

Captain Allen Symonds is now stationed at Camp Hood,
Texas. He is Combined Maintenance Officer and has charge
of requisitions, issue, and inspection of all material, Mainte-
nance of Ordnance, Quartermaster, Signal Corps, Engineers,
etc. Home: 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

Lieutenant John Cully, USN, has been shooting his LST
back and forth across the channel ever since D-Day. He is
now a commander of an LST squadron. Home: 703 East
3rd Street, Dixon, Illinois.

Russell Cummings, after leaving Washington and Lee,
went to work for Warner Brothers in Lexington, later the
Music Store, across from the theatre, and the local post-
office. He was inducted into the Navy last June. He is now
stationed at Virginia Beach, Virginia, where his wife and
two fine sons have joined him.

Captain Richard A. Caldwell, Army Air Force Medical
Corps, has been in Africa and Italy for the past two years
as flight surgeon on the 309th Fighter Group of the 15th
Air Force. When last heard from he was being redeployed
to the Pacific Theatre. Home: Bentleyville, Pennsylvania.

John D. Copenhaver, A.B. ’33, LL.B. °35, was among
64 Red Cross workers just returned from New Guinea and
will be given further assignment in the Southwest Pacific
as an American Red Cross assistant field director. Home:
404 Washington Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

Major Marion E. Porter has been in the Army since
1941, rising from the grade of private to that of Major. His
entire service was performed in Military Intelligence as a
member of the Counter Intelligence Corps. From November,
1942 until June 1945 he was overseas in North Africa, Sicily,
Italy, France and Germany where he carried out investiga-
tions and interrogations leading to the apprehension of

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

numerous enemy agents. At the present time he is Director
of Training for Counter Intelligence Corps, though under
the recently announced point system for officers, he is eligi-
ble for immediate discharge. Home: 282 Sutherland Drive,
Atlanta, Georgia.

1934

Captain George D. McClure is a member of Lieutenant
General George’s staff at Army Headquarters, Air Trans-
port Command, with the title of Chief, Ground Safety Divi-
sion of A.T.C., has the opportunity to travel some twenty-
odd thousand miles a month all over the globe. He says;
“You can run into those W. & L. boys in the damnedest
places.” He is unable to mention specific instances for se-
curity reasons.

Arnold S. Dallava has been in the Coast Guard for almost
three years, about two years of this time on shore duty in
New Jersey, has been in the Pacific Area for a year, and
is now on a cargo ship. He has been in India, Australia
and all of the islands, but still prefers New York to any of
the places he has seen. Home: 511 North Erie Street, Rock-
ville, Indiana.

Lieutenant Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., left the procurement of-
fice in June, 1944, and is now Boat Group Commander, USS
Bracken in the Pacific Area.

Lieutenant Robert B. Safford is now a full Lieutenant
and skipper of an LST in the Southwest Pacific. He was
in the States for two months training last summer. Home:
605 Brooklawn Avenue, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

Lieutenant Hudson C. Hall has been in the Navy since
June 1943 and is now administrative officer of a carrier-
based torpedo bomber squadron. Home: 19 Seaton Street,
Struthers, Ohio.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Holmes Dyer writes a short letter,—
short, “because of censorship and monotony.” He _ says;
“The ‘Rolly O’ is still being tossed around in its own inimi-
table style. No startling new honors have been blazoned
on her proud escutcheon, but still her faultless reputation
for reliability is even more deeply embedded in the plans
of the powers that be than ever before—not because Dyer
is her executive, but because she is fundamentally a likeable,
seaworthy cutter. Please extend my sincerest best wishes to
each and every mutual friend.”” Home: 75 South Street, Free-
hold, New Jersey.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Charles H. Reasor was attached to a
PT Squadron in the Pacific for fifteen months, home on
a thirty day leave, and is now at Melville, Rhode Island,
for reassignment. Home: 554 Baker Avenue, Webster Groves,
Missouri.

Captain Walter C. Johnston, U.S. Air Corps, arrived
overseas February 11, 1944; Normandy July 24; spent the
winter in Belgium; and arrived in Germany April 22, 1945.
He says being part of a conquering army in Germany is
not nearly the fun that being a member of a liberating army
in France and Belgium was. Home: 2616 Hanover Avenue,
Richmond, Virginia.

1935

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins, recently discharged from the Med-
ical Corps of the Army of the United States, is now in pri-
vate practice in Philadelphia, specializing in obstetrics and

 

Kerford A. Marchant, ’37
(See Class Note)

 

gynecology. Address: 525

Kast Mount Airy Avenue, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. ,

Lieutenant Henry L. Ravenhorst, U.S. Army Signal
Corps, was in the Aleutians from September 1943 until April
1944; then in Alaska with the 14th Signal Corps, Assistant
Signal Officer, Alaskan Department; on leave April 2, 1945,
and reassigned to Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. Home:
313 South Jefferson Street, Lexington, Virginia.

Edwin Coulbourn entered the service on May 7, 1945, and
was assigned to Camp Robinson, Arkansas. Home: 406
Catherine Street, Suffolk, Virginia.

(Notes by Class Agent, Bill Schuhle)

Bill Alexander is still with the F.B.I. and is now sta-
tioned in Dallas, Texas. He hopes to be allowed to remain
in the Lone Star State.

Joe Clemmer is a captain serving in the Army postal
service. He was stationed at the airfield at Foggia, Italy.
(Recently home on furlough.)

[21 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dick Banks, a captain in the Army, has been in England
for about two years, serving with the transportation office.

George Boyd, on “extended vacation” from a New York
law firm, is serving as an X-ray technician in the Navy hos-
pital in Charleston, S. C. He has a daughter three years old
and a son born in September, 1944.

Angus Campbell is engaged in the practice of taxation
and accounting in Pontiac, Michigan. He is married and has
two children, one of whom is a boy who, he hopes, is headed
for Lexington.

Loyal Gassman has moved from Iran to France and is
working as an army teletypist. He recently visited his
brother in England and met the brother’s fiance. Loyal has
a son over two years of age whom he has never seen.

Lewis Harvey, a staff sergeant stationed with a bomb
group in the Philippines, hopes to return to the States this
summer after the completion of his second tour of duty.

Ben Hope is at the Army Flying School at Enid, Okla-
homa.

Gene Krewson, heading for home, reports that he has
“run the gamut from enlisted man to two stripes (in the
Navy) but will be glad to return to the exalted rank of pri-
vate citizen.” He is looking forward to the time the Big
Blue Team will roll again, to the tune of “Washington and
Lee, 20; Virginia, 0.”

Dunc McDavid, a lieutenant in the Navy, has roved about
considerably during the past two years and is now stationed
in the New Hebrides.

Bob Miller is still working for the United States Rubber
Company, in Detroit, “trying to make rubber tires out of
sows’ ears; and with reasonable success, too.”

Gus Morgan has been serving overseas with the 75th
Division of the Army.

Harry Rhett wrote from Fort Robinson, Nebraska, where
he went after his return from Italy. He is major in the army.

John Spohr, a Navy lieutenant, was married to Carol
Louise Piercy on September 30, 1944. In April, 1945, he left
Cleveland “for parts unknown.”

Grier Wallace is a lieutenant in the Army and is engaged
in the installation of communications systems for the Air
Force stationed in the Philippines. Prior to that he was in
New Guinea and a number of other places.

Wilson King is still farming at Rock Falls, Illinois.

Bill Sphar is continuing his work in his feed store in
Winchester, Kentucky.
1936

Lieutenant Commander Roger Myers, Jr., has been on
duty at the Philadelphia Naval Hospital on the Orthopedic
Surgical Service where they are largely concerned with
rehabilitation and reconstructive surgery for returned Naval
and Marine personnel with orthopedic combat disabilities.
He and his wife have a 14 months old son who keeps them
close to home. Home address: Hurlock, Maryland.

Captain Walter B. Eager enlisted in the Air Corps in
July, 1942. He has been in Europe since June, 1944. He is a
captain in the intelligence division of a heavy bombardment

group in the 8th Air Force. Home: 572 Imperial Avenue,
Westport, Connecticut.

Lieutenant W. Magruder Drake received his class letter
while at his home in Port Gibson, Mississippi, on a 30 day
leave from his duties in the Pacific Area. He was a visitor
to the campus just before returning to duty.

Major John D. Locke, Field Artillery. When he enlisted
in the 101st Field Artillery Battalion in early 1941, he found
himself the only Southerner in the entire Yankee Division.
He received his present assignment in 1944, Staff and Fac-
ulty, Field Artillery School, Fort Sill, Oklahoma, but is mo-
mentarily expecting to take a quick trip some distance be-
yond our own west coast. Home: 525 North 16th Street,
Muskogee, Oklahoma.

Captain W. B. Hoofstitler is located at Dover Army Air
Field, Dover, Delaware.

Al Reeser has been with the U.S. Army for four years and
is now with the 15th Army somewhere in Europe. Home:
Media, Pennsylvania.

Stuart Miller has just received his Navy release. He is
married and has a son. He was with the Western Electric
Company prior to his war service. Home: 501 Main Street,
Orange, New Jersey.

Tyree Wilson is a Lieutenant Commander, Naval Air
Corps, and has recently been transferred to duty aboard an
aircraft carrier. Home: R.F.D. No. 1, East Greenwich, Rhode
Island.

A. R. Lofstrand, Jr., is General Manager and Secretary-
Treasurer of the Lofstrand Company, Silver Spring, Mary-
land. In the two and a half years they have been engaged in
Army and Navy production they have grown in number
from seven to over one hundred employees. His company re-
ceived the Army-Navy “E” award, and has since been
awarded a star on their “E” flag.

Paul G. Hervey has been teaching in the public schools of
Texas since June, 1936. He is now Superintendent of Schools
in Enloe, Texas. Last fall he was a delegate to the Texas
State Democratic Convention in the Stormy Dallas Sep-
tember session. He was married in December, 1935 (in Lee
Chapel) and has a son six years old, Richard Morton Hervey,
named for Dr. Morton, who performed the ceremony.

S. Adrian Whiteside has been affiliated for about nine
years with the Blueridge Company, Incorporated, of Glas-
gow, Virginia, subsidiary of the Charles P. Cochrane Com-
pany, Incorporated, of Bridgeport, Pennsylvania. This com-
pany, at present, is on government contract work in the man-
ufacture of cotton duck for the Army. In peacetime they
manufacture carpet and rugs. Incidentally, one of their beau-
tiful rugs adorns the Alumni Secretary’s office. Adrian is
married and has a baby daughter. Home: 613 Jackson Avenue,
Lexington, Virginia.

Lieutenant Sam L. Alexander, U.S.N.R., is on the U.S.S.
Waldron. Home: Care of Judge J. H. R. Alexander, Lees-
burg, Virginia.

Hugh D. McNew was in the Navy for two years, received
a medical discharge, and is now Industrial Relations Man-
ager for the National Lead Company, Carondelet Station,
St. Louis 11, Missouri. He has a son who was born while
he was in the Navy, and would like to send him to Washing-
ton and Lee when he is ready for college.

| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1937

Captain Howell W. Roberts has been “roasting in the
tropical sunshine and soaking in the tropical rains” of Guam
as Statistical Control Officer for the Central Pacific Wing,
Pacific Division, Air Transport Command. Home: 102 Fourth
Street, Garden City, Long Island, New York.

Lieutenant Edgar D. Flynn, Jr., is Gunnery Officer on a
destroyer built in his home town, in the Pacific and has been
out of the States for eighteen months. Home: 1806 Old
Government Street, Mobile, Alabama.

Walter G. Thomas is working in the Neuropsychiatric
section of Brooke Convalescent Hospital at Fort Sam Hous-
ton, Texas. This is a branch of Brooke General Hospital at
San Antonio. Home: 7 East Leland Street, Chevy Chase,
Maryland.

Captain Preston Moore is now stationed near Fort Worth,
Texas.

Hayes Cluxton has just returned to the States after eleven
months sea duty in the Central Pacific. He is now assigned
to the U. S. Marine Hospital, Savannah, Georgia.

Lieutenant Walter G. Lehr, Jr., is still an instructor in
a training installation, and waiting his chance to go overseas.
Home: 119 Paseo Encinal, San Antonio, Texas.

Lieutenant C. Arnold Matthews was hospitalized for sev-
eral months last year but is now with the Supply Department,
Navy Yard, New York. He has been in Murmansk, Scotland,
England, Newfoundland, Africa, Australia, and the South
Pacific. Home: Brodnax, Virginia.

Lieutenant William C. Wilbur has been in France since
August, 1944, and is Security and Intelligence officer of his
squadron; with the Army Airways Communication System.
Home: R.F.D. No. 5, Charleston, South Carolina.

Lynne Morris Atmar, Army Air Force, has been overseas
Since November, 1942. He was on the Galapagos Islands for
six months and is now in Panama. Home: Groveton, Texas.

Pharmacist’s Mate Third Class Warren A. Cliburn has
been overseas for some time, New Guinea, Philippines, and
Okinawa. Home: Euclid and Edison Streets, Chino, Califor-
nia.

Lieutenant Robert C. Hoff, USA, has traveled extensively
during the past year; Summer of 1944 found him in New
York loading ammunition out of Jersey City; some time at
Camp Reynolds, Pennsylvania; Thankgiving outside Los
Angeles; out of there to Melbourne and Bombay; overland
by train to Karachi, India; by a limey to Khorranshahr, Iran;
a week or so in a desert camp near Ahwaz, Iran, back to
Khorranshahr, and on a Dutchman to Marseilles, France.
Home: 3257 North Marietta Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Lieutenant Park Rouse, U. S. Navy (Communications),
writing on July 29, 1945, was on his way back to the Pacific
after a leave in this country. For the past year he has been on
duty at Admiral Nimitz’ headquarters at Pearl Harbor. He
was on his way to Guam, where he will have a new job on
the staff. Home: 334 59th Street, Newport News, Virginia.

Lieutenant Zack Kramer, U. S. Army, Ordnance, has
been in the Hawaiian Islands for two and a half months. He
says; “While swimming at the Officers Club, Waikiki he
noticed that Bob Junger, ’41, Roger Bear, 45, and several

 

-

lst Lt. Garret Hiers, Jr., ’39
(See Class Note)

 

other Washington and Lee men have been there.” He is
Ordnance Property officer at the Air Base on the Island
of Karai in the Hawaiian Islands. Home: 69-10 Fellowstone
Boulevard, Forest Hills, New York.

Captain Archie Sproul commanded a rifle company with
the famous 29th Division made its historic landing in Nor-
mandy on D-Day, June 6, 1944. He wears the Distinguished
Service Cross in addition to the Purple Heart with Oak Leaf
cluster. Home: Staunton, Virginia. (Since this note was
written Archie has been discharged and visited the campus
recently).

Lieutenant Charles S. McNulty, after being through three
campaigns with the 99th Division as an artillery forward ob-
server, has been redeployed to the 83rd Division. His letter
was written August 15, 1945, from Grafenwohr Training
Area, Germany. Home: 108 Cambridge Avenue, Roanoke,
Virginia.

First Lieutenant Charles A. Butterworth, U. S. Army Air
Force, was in India for several months, then transferred
to Tinian Island in the Mariana Group. He has received the
Distinguished Flying Cross with bronze cluster, the Air
Medal, with two oak leat clusters, the Asiatic, Pacific
theatre ribbons with three battle stars. Home: Care of Mrs.
C. A. Butterworth, Jr., Care of R. P. Lodge, Pitman, New
Jersey.

[ 23 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lieutenant Colonel George F. Gilleland went overseas in
August, 1943. He has been in New Guinea, Leyte, and until
now, in Manila. He received the Bronze Star Medal for
service in New Guinea, and also the Oak Leaf Cluster. Ad-
dress: Care of Watkins Salt Company, Watkins Glen, New
Y ork.

Marine Private First Class Kerford A. Marchant is cred-
ited with an “assist” in the subjugation of “the Monster” of
Shuri Castle. “Marchant, former draftsman at the Norfolk
Naval Operating Base, is a scout in a First Marine Division
Regiment which seized the Okinawan citadel. In the open-
ing phase of the assault on the ancient fort, a heavy Jap
gun, which the Marines nicknamed ‘the Monster,’ was fired
by the enemy from a concealed position south of Shuri
heights. Marchant was one of two scouts in a patrol sent
to locate the Monster’s hideaway. The reconnaissance took
Marchant through the ‘No Man’s Land’ between Sugar
Loaf Hill and Shuri Ridge. Twenty times the patrol was
pinned down by Jap mortar fire and sporadic shelling by the
Monster. Marchant’s mission was to watch for the gun’s
Hash in the distance and count the number of seconds until
the shell hit. He spotted the gun’s flash, estimated the dis-
tance from which it was firing and made a sketch of the area,
returning safely with the information to regimental head-
quarters, where an artillery barrage finally shelled the Mon-
ster out of existence with the benefit of Marchant’s sketch.
On the way back, the Marine discovered a roadblock, which
the Japs had erected under a trestle on the Naha-Yonabaru
railroad. Marines removed it after he made his report. Home:
623 Shirley Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.

(Notes by Class Agent, Eddie Marks)

“Doc” Baker is a Major in the Quartermaster Corps.
Information received from his sister in April says that Doc
had been transferred to France. Prior to that time he had
been in Italy, and altogether has been overseas for about
three years. As far as I know Doc is still single but probably
very eligible.

Wally Bernard was drafted into the Navy in November,
1943, and, after finishing boot training, was given a rating
of Storekeeper, Third Class. In January, 1944, he was as-
signed to an Attack Transport and went out on what was sup-
posed to be a shakedown cruise. According to Wally, it was
quite a shakedown for it included the Normandy and Southern
France invasions. Following that, Wally was recommended
by his Skipper for a commission in the Supply Department
with the rank of Lieutenant. But, as things so often happen,
he ended up with a line job and the rank of Ensign. At
present Wally is taking a naval course at Harvard in war
adjustment problems. Before entering the navy, Wally was
President of the Bernard Color and Chemical Corporation.
Wally married prior to entering the service.

Jim Brydges is another instance where my information
is not direct but is certainly first hand for it comes from
Jim’s father, Mr. W. H. Brydges. Jim has been in the ser-
vice for about two years and in March, 1945, was stationed
in the Hawaiian Islands where I presume he still is. Jim is
married, but I don’t know if there are any additions.

James A. Blalock is stationed at present at Camp Lee,
Virginia. He writes that he always considered Petersburg
to be one of the dullest sections of the State, but it looks
mighty good to him after being in India for two years.
Jimmy is now Master Sergeant, and at the present time has

a quasi-legal job which consists of giving personal advice to
trainees. According to him, it looks like the whole Army is
about to get divorced because nearly every trainee that talks
to him wants information along this line.

Amos Bolen is now a Lieutenant in the Navy and is sta-
tioned in Akron, Ohio. I believe Amos has been in the service
for about two-and-a-half years, his naval career having be-
gun with a commission of Lieutenant (j.g.) from Quonset,
Rhode Island. If any one knows a good place (or one not so
good) that Amos can rent in Akron, he would certainly like
to hear about it for he has been looking for a place to move
his family for several months, but so far has been unsuc-
cessful, and they are still in Huntington, West Virginia.

Stanley Higgins is a Lieutenant in the Navy, and has
been in the Navy for about two-and-a-half years. For the
first year, he spent most of his time trying to persuade his
Commanding Officer to give him sea duty and was finally
successful. He is now on an Attack Transport which he
helped put in commission. According to Jack, his biggest
contribution to winning the war was watching the Marines
on Iwo Jima. (Jack, however, always did understate things).
He has been married for about seven years, and has a son
nine months old.

Jim McClure, according to information from his wife,
Margaret, writing last March, says, that Jim is a Lieutenant
in the Coast Guard, and at the time that she wrote, he was

‘in Australia. His job is mostly legal, but has occasion also to

utilize the knowledge of ships that he has obtained in his
three years of service. Jim started off as a Gunnery Officer
in the North Atlantic fleet, and after about eight months,
was trasferred to the New York unit of the Merchant Marine
Hearing Board. It seems that he does quite a bit of travel-
ing, and on one of his recent trips, he pulled a “General
Patton” by swimming across a stream where the bridge
had been destroyed. Jim has two sons, and by now there is
a third child which I join them in hoping is a girl.

Harry Moreland is now a Lieutenant in the Navy and is
stationed in Norfolk, Virginia, but more or less expects duty
in the Pacific at any time. As you know, he has been married
for quite some time, having married a charming girl from
Staunton, Virginia. Incidentally, he was in Lexington recent-
ly and says that it doesn’t look like the same old place with
the Army having taken over so many of our facilities.

Tilford Payne is a Warrant Officer in the Marines, at-
tached to the Aviation branch, and has been in that organ-
ization for over three years. Til’s father furnished me this
information, and at the time he wrote, Til was on his way
to the Pacific but had only been gone such a short time that
his address was not known. Mr. Payne wrote that, while he
had no exact knowledge of his whereabouts, he imagined that
he had recently seen “grass skirts weaving hither and yon
in the hula...” Very, very interesting.

George Pilcher, from news received indirectly from Harry
Moreland, is (or has been) a Lieutenant Commander in the
Navy. I say “has been” for Harry stated that George was
being placed on the inactive list and was probably in civilian
clothes already.

Ed Stover, in a letter received last March, says that he
was still in civilian clothes, being one of those rare individ-
uals with a high draft number who had not yet been called
into service. At the time Ed wrote, he had not been inducted,
but had been examined and passed, but I don’t know whether

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

he has been called or not. As you know, Ed was one of the
first in our class to get married and has quite a family now.

I. M. Scott is a Major in the Infantry, and at the last
report, was attached to General Clark’s staff. Scotty has been
overseas a long time, spending most of his time in Italy
where he served with distinction. As you probably know,
Scotty has been married for about three or four years, and
his wife, Joan, is living at Jenkintown, Pennsylvania.

1938

William H. Daniel writes that the Primary Contract
flying school, Lakeland, Florida, he has been with for the
past four years, graduates its last class of cadets in August of
this year and that the school has trained thousands of United
States Army cadets in the past few years. He expects to re-
turn to the real estate business at the R. T. Daniel Building,
Tulsa, Oklahoma. He is married and has two daughters and
is “pondering over returning to school for a semester to get
his degree.”

Technician Fifth Grade John G. Ostertag writes that he
has been in the United States Army for sixteen months and
located at Near Ulm, Germany, for the past seven months.
Home: R.F.D. No. 4, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Lieutenant Bill Byrn is with the Naval Reserve as an
Anti-Submarine Warfare Officer on the staff of a Destroyer
Squadron Commander for the past year. He is married and
has a small son, Billy Byrn, Jr., who is a few months old.
Home: 315 Oakley Street, Cambridge, Maryland.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Paul C. Lavietes is on P.C. 1081 in the
South Pacific. (Paul has been home on leave and married
since this note was written). Home: Box 226, Boone, North
Carolina.

Technical Sergeant Chester Palmer has been in the Marine
Corps for three years and a Marine Combat Correspondent
and photographer. He has been in the Pacific for the past
fifteen months. Home: 3105 18th Street, N.W., Washington,
D.C.

Lieutenant A. Milton Morrison has been officer in charge
of the San Antonio Air Technical Command Classification
Audit Team, at Kelly Field. He recently was moved to
Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania. Home: 8 Houston Street,
Lexington, Virginia.

Lieutenant Stuart Reynolds has been stationed at Berry
Field, in Nashville, Tennessee, since he received his com-
mission. Home: 93 St. Mark Place, Staten Island, New York.

Captain Thomas Hart Baker is now a Battalion surgeon
on Saipan, where he has been since last August. Home:
St. Andrews Terrace, West Helena, Arkansas.

Captain Jerry Deavours enlisted in the Marine Corps in
the summer of 1941 and worked his way up through platoon
leaders class. He was overseas for eighteen months and was
on Guadalcanal, Munda, Bougainville, and Green Island. He
hopes to go back to the China and Jap coast. Home: Care of
Mrs. R. H. Dunson, Mercedes, Texas.

Lieutenant William H. Hudgins graduated from the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School and the next day entered the
Navy. He is now the Commanding Officer on the U.S.S.
Carnelian and has been such for over a year. His home is in
Chase City, Virginia.

 

Lt. (j.g.) Cecil W. Taylor, ’39
(See Class Note)

Lieutenant Gerald M. Lively is stationed at the U-S.
Navy Training Center at Miami, Florida, where he is Ad-
ministrative Aid to the Chief Staff Officer. Home: 5301
Windsor Lane, Kansas City, Kansas.

Lieutenant Charles F. Clarke, Jr., after graduation from
the University of Michigan Law School, was inducted into
the service, taking his basic training at Camp Wolters. He
was 145 pound boxing champion of the camp. He is now sta-
tioned in Chicago. Home: 48 North Monroe Street, Cold-
water, Michigan.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Sam McChesney had thirteen months
duty at the Navy Supply Depot at Oakland, California, and
was then assigned to duty as Supply Officer on a light cruiser
in December of last year. He has been to Iwo Jima and
Okinawa. He was married in October, 1943, to Edna Me-
Corkle, a Navy nurse. Home: Care of S. P. McChesney,
35 Hillvale Drive, St. Louis, Missouri.

Sidney Repplier is on a Coast Guard Cutter in the Pacific.
He has seen several Washington and Lee men in his travels.
Home: 415 Roumfort Road, Mount Airy, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

First Lieutenant Elmer S. Lane has been overseas with
the Medical Department since December, 1944. He is adju-
tant of a 500 bed evacuation hospital, and says it keeps him
on the jump. He says; “We are just sitting here about fifty
miles north of Frankfurt-on-Main, ‘sweating out’ the next
move.”

[25 |

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

(Notes by Class Agent, Calvert Thomas)

Lieutenant Edward F. Keczka states that he is still single
and has just received his First Lieutenantcy after leaving
the comforts of a Naval Hospital. Home address: Box 2601,
Washington 13, D.C.

King Jones’ wife says that King has been overseas for
nearly two years, is now a major in the Army, and since
January has been in Le Havre, France.

Don Cushman, according to Mrs. Cushman, has been
with the Seabees since September, 1943, and is now in the
Pacific somewhere near the Philippines.

Norman Allison, in a letter from his wife, states that he
is a Lieutenant in the Army and is now intelligence officer
with the 447th Bomb Group of the Eighth Air Force, sta-
tioned near Ipswich, England. His reports home relate in
part to “sleeping in castles, bowling on the green, sipping
tea like a native, enduring a foggy mist, and the alarming
fact that the lassies outnumber the Yanks 10-1.”

John Nicrosi is a Lieutenant in the Navy and his address
is: Lt. John B. Nicrosi, U.S.N.R., Staff Com. Ad. Com. 7th
Amphib., Box F, FPO, San Francisco, California.

Wilfred Ritz, in a letter from his brother, says, that he
is in Germany with the Air Service Command and has been
overseas since November, 1943.

Ashton Powell has been in Leipzig, Germany, with the
109th A.A.A. Group, First Army. Information received from
Mrs. H. Ashton Powell.

(Notes by Class Agent, Ed Rankin)

Hal Clarke is a lieutenant attached to the U. S. Naval
Amphibious Training Base at Fort Pierce, Florida. In his
letter he stated, “I have been in the Navy quite some time
now and although have been outside the country on long
stretches, at the moment I am shore based here in Florida
doing communications work on the staff.”” Hal would be very
much interested in receiving letters from you.

Sam A. Martin has had rugged going since he left Pearis-
burg, Virginia. He stated that since joining the Navy in 1942,
he has spent 32 months at sea; he has seen 24 foreign lands;
he has been shipwrecked off the coast of Nova Scotia for
11 days, he was blown out of a small boat when it caught
fire and blew up; and he “was forced to abandon ship when
a Jap suicide bomber got us in January during the invasion
of Luzon.” Although Sam didn’t go into any great details in
his letter, he did say that his last experience was a bit too
much to handle and he is now in the U.S. Naval Hospital
at Sampson, New York, regaining his once good health.

Lenny Leight is now back in his favorite city, New York,
but only after some very interesting foreign duty with the
Air Forces. He reported that he has just returned from “a
three year tour of duty in India where I threw my all into
the Judge Advocate section of the 10th Air Force and later
the Army Air Forces, India-Burma Theatre,” and he stated
that he has learned a lot about the people and the country
of that theatre, and that his work there was most interesting.
Lenny will be (I believe) happy to elaborate on his experi-
ences if you will drop him a line. Incidentally, he reports
that he has taken unto himself a wife and he states that he
hopes the future will find him an accomplished husband and
a good citizen once again.

Lang Skarda didn’t report of his activities. His address
indicates he is stationed in Dayton, Ohio.

1939

Lieutenant Alexander Loeb has been in the Pacific area
since 1943. Home: Care of Mrs. I. Rothenburg, 1102 Second
Avenue, Meridian, Mississippi.

Thomas W. Christopher, U. S. Navy, Instructor in Avia-
tion, is now out of the service, and is employed as civilian
instructor with an aircraft company at Vandergraff Field,
‘Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Expects to study law at the University
of Alabama this winter.

Lieutenant Garret Hiers, Jr.. U. S. Army Signal Corps
was stationed in Lexington in July, 1943, on the staff of
the School for Personnel Services as athletic instructor. He
has been overseas for nineteen months and is “ready to go
home.” He says he has been lucky with athletics over there,
played football in England before D-Day, touring the
country, and his softball team won the championship in their
area in France. He, himself, won the swimming champion-
ship for the section of La Belle France. He saw Will Rogers,
°38, and they decided, after being in Ireland, England, France,
Belgium and Germany that “there’s no place like home.”
He was married September 5, 1943, and has just celebrated
his second anniversary, both of which were away from home.

Lieutenant Colonel Charles P. Lykes has been awarded
the Air Medal by the commanding general of the 31st In-
fantry Division in Mindanao. He is assistant operations of-
ficer of the 3lst Division, and has been in the Pacific Theatre
for 19 months. He is now in the States on the Army’s tem-
porary duty plan. He received the Air Medal for dangerous
Hights in liaison planes over enemy territory in Mindanao,
using improvised and inadequate landing strips.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Cecil W. Taylor, A.B. ’39, LL.B. ’41,
in picture on page 25, stands beside one of the planes of the
Pacific carrier-based bombing fighting squadron with which
he has served as air combat intelligence officer. Before enter-
ing the Service he was a special agent for the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. His wife is the former Lida Belle Goyer
of Memphis, Tennessee, and they have two daughters, Lida T’.,
3 years old and Mary E., 18 months old. Home: 3814 Fort
Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

1940

Reverend William Parker Neal has recently become Rec-
tor of Trinity Episcopal Church, Claremont, New Hampshire,
and priest in charge of Epiphany Church in Newport, New
Hampshire. He is married and has two small children. Home:
3 Bond Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. *

Charlie Curl is still flying for Pan American Grace Air-
ways. He writes that he married a girl from Pennsylvania,
who has spent most of her life in foreign countries. They
met in Chile, were married there three months later, and
now have a little girl ten months old. Charlie was on leave
in this country for a short time in February and March,
his first trip home in over four years. His address is Care of
Panagra, Santiago, Chile.

Ensign Robert W. Powers, LCT 1089, FPO, San Fran-
cisco, California, went overseas in October, 1944, was first
in New Guinea and since then in the Philippines. He took

| 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

part in the Lingayen operations, and has been skipper of an
LST since April, 1945. He has seen many Washington and
Lee men. Home: 411 West Main Street, Bennettsville, South
Carolina.

First Lieutenant Alton D. Farber has been Public Re-
lations Officer at Gardiner General Hospital in Chicago for
some sixteen months.

Lieutenant Robert C. Hobson, U. S$. Navy, is stationed
at Corpus Christi, Texas. He is the proud father of a four
months old baby girl. Home: Route 1, Brownsboro Road,
Louisville, Kentucky.

Major George M. Foote, U.S.M.C., has now completed
nearly 30 months service in the Pacific. He landed with the
Fifth Division on Iwo Jima the first day and completed the
entire campaign. Home: 2012 Elliott Street, Alexandria,
Louisiana.

Captain Ernest Woodward, II, is Regimental Adjutant
of the 16lst Infantry which has been fighting on Balete
Pass in North Luzon for the past three months. He served
three years in the Pacific area and was in the fighting at
Guadalcanal, New Georgia and the Philippines, and was
awarded the Purple Heart and Silver Star. Home: Care of
Mr. Ernest Woodward, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville, Kentucky.

Captain Alison C. Wysong is Aide to General Hugh
Gaffey somewhere in Germany. He has had quite a record.
Home: Port Washington, New York.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Hal B. Watterson is commanding officer
on his ship. He is on his way back to the Pacific after a leave
in this country. Home: Rogersville, Tennessee.

Ensign Charles R. Kirk is on the U.S.S.
comb. Home: 915 Main Street, Findlay, Ohio.

Simon New-

Lieutenant Marvin H. Luria is now back “in the good
old U.S.A.” and stationed at Selfridge Field, Michigan.
Home: 1924 Lincoln Liberty Building, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.

Corporal Maurice E. Bostwick has been in the Army
three years and is now in Italy serving as a statistical clerk
in Allied Headquarters of the MTO. Headquarters are lo-
cated in an enormous palace in Caserta, Italy. Home: 6105
Buena Vista, Mission, Kansas.

Warrant Officer (j.g.) Billy Vaughn Ayers is stationed
at Fort Meade, Maryland.

H. G. Disbrow, Jr., has been in the service since October,
1942. He returned from Brazil in December, 1944, and is now
stationed at the Naval Air Station, Clinton, Oklahoma.
Home: 10 Woodside Road, Madison, New Jersey.

William LeRoy Burner, Jr., is now in Officers Candidate
School at Fort Knox, Kentucky. Home: 2603 Davis Avenue,
Alexandria, Virginia.

Lieutenant Latimer G. Young, after receiving his M.D.
from Johns-Hopkins, was commissioned a First Lieutenant.
and is now at the 86th Evacuation Hospital, Camp Bowie,
Texas. Home: 2906 Guilford Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

Lieutenant Colonel William E. Buxton, U. S. Army Air
Corps, was one of the Second Air Commando pilots who
took part in a fighter sweep on roads and railroads in South-

Rae

 

Captain Lupton Avery, °41
(See Class Note)

 

ern Burma. About 20 cars were strafed while being loaded
and other cars, trucks and carts were destroyed or severely
damaged. “I was flying at about 100 feet, and as four of the
cars exploded, blazing 55 gallon oil drums were hurled 200
feet into the air, I had to dive a little to keep from getting
hit.” He was back in the States in June, 1945, after duty
in Burma with the 2nd Air Commando Group. Home: 601
Belvedere, Memphis, Tennessee.

First Lieutenant S. A. Faulk, USMC, is now on a tour
of duty overseas. He was married in August, 1944, and has a
baby daughter. Home: 903 North Dawson Street, Thomas-
ville, Georgia.

Lieutenant Lea Booth, USNR, writing from the Pacific
Area, where he has been for the past two years, says that
recently when he was on duty at a fleet radio station, the
Minks led the parade, Lieutenant Beverly Rhett, ’29, Lieu-
tenant Ben Ashcroft, ’41, and himself. The last time Lea was
in port they organized a volleyball game, lacking one player,
a call was issued, and “a Robinson Crusoe-like chap crawled
out from under a palm frond and volunteered.” It was Bob
Gregerson, "41, who was going home the next day after
20-odd months on a tanker in the Pacific. Home: 136 West
Main Street, Danville, Virginia.

Lieutenant Homer Darrell Dickens, U.S.A., has been with
the Office of Chief Quartermaster, serving as a Statistician

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in the Subsistence Division, since February, 1944, now sta-
tioned in Paris, France.

Lieutenant Alan G. Hoskins wrote from London where
he was waiting for a trip home. He was in Casablanca for
three months and then in Athens, Greece, for seven months.
Home: 140 Gilpin, Denver 3, Colorado.

Joseph A. Billingsley, U.S. Marine Corps, has been dis-
charged from the service, and is thinking about entering
law school in Washington, D. C.

Captain John J. Dangler was inducted into the Army
Air Corps in February, 1941. His group was the 484th Bomb
Group, 49th Bomb Wing, 15th Air Force and took part in
assisting the French First Army and General Patton’s forces
in its push in September, 1944. The group has won two unit
citations. During his Army service, Captain Dangler mar-
ried First Lieutenant Carolyn Eason of the Army Nurse
Corps. Home: Care of Dr. H. W. Dangler, 654 East 19th
Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Lieutenant Colonel D. B. (“Bo”) McEwan, U.S. Army
Tank Corps, is still overseas, serving on the staff of the 3rd
Army under General Patton. Home: 705 DeLaney Street,
Orlando, Florida.

H. W. (Bit) Bittenbender is serving his fifth year in the
Army, the past three years in Army Intelligence. Has been
assigned in New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Texas.
Home: 1432 13th Avenue, South, St. Petersburg, Florida.

1941

Marvin S. Winter was retired from the service in October,
1944, on account of physical disability and since that time
has acquired a real estate management company, and what
is more important, a son, Benjamin, born April 30, 1945.

Tom Brockenbrough has a war job with the Glenn L.
Martin Company and was recently promoted to the Struc-
tural Development Department. His letter was written in
May, 1945. Home: 508 Woodlawn Road, Baltimore 10,
Maryland.

Captain Richard W. Smith, after foreign service since
August 1942, was in Mare Island Naval Hospital in Cali-
fornia in June, 1944, received a medical discharge, and has
entered the University of Michigan Law School. Home:
Monroe Park, Lexington, Virginia.

Staff Sergeant Hugh R. Best of Rome, Georgia, directs
and produces soldier shows for the Army. A fiend for musi-
cal satire, he satirized burlesque in his all-soldier burlesque
show, “Take It Off,’ poked fun at the air cadet program
with his, “You Too Can Fly,” and at the good neighbor
policy with “Stars and Spice.” In 1944, while stationed at
Pampa (Texas) Army Air Field, he wrote and produced
ten G.I. musical shows—all hits.

Captain Elliott W. Butts, Jr., has received the Silver Star,
the Distinguished Flying Cross, and the Air Medal and two
Oak Leaf Clusters. He is a member of the 419th Bombard-
ment Squadron, 301lst Bombardment Group. Home: 2815
St. John Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida.

Lieutenant William S. Hummers, Jr., is attached to
N.A.T.S., hauling “all sorts of junk” and passengers around
the Pacific with occasional stops in Oakland, California.
Home: 1 Ridgecrest North, Scarsdale, New York.

Captain Richard L. Saunders, Jr., was with the 3rd Gen-
eral Hospital in France when his letter was written in
July. Home: 517 Teaneck Road, Ridgefield Park, New Jersey.

Lieutenant Charles Bagley is still with the Air Trans-
port Command stationed in San Francisco, at Hamilton
Field. At the time his letter was written in June, they were
flying supplies into Okinawa and the Philippines and evac-
uating the wounded. Home: Fayetteville, Tennessee.

Lieutenant Chester Eccleston, writing in July, was on
another APA (Attack Transport): the Hanover APA 116,
and on his second Pacific tour. He spent two years in the
Pacific, participating in the defense of Guadalcanal, invasion
of Bougainville, Guam and Leyte. Home: 140 Summit
Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.

Lieutenant R. M. Herndon, writing in July, had been in
Paris for five weeks and before that was with the 44th Di-
vision. He says; “We had an interesting few months prior
to the end of the war. On V-E day we were in the mountains
of Austria where we remained for about three weeks. I
couldn’t have picked a better spot if I’d had my choice.
While there we made several trips to the Italian border and
to several ‘tourist’ spots in Tyrol.” Home: 1 College Lane,
Haverford, Pennsylvania.

Lieutenant William C. Soule, who had a knee operation
back in 1943, which is still giving him trouble, is now on the
teaching staff of the Army Finance School, Fort Benjamin
Harrison, Indiana. He was married August 11, 1945, to Alice
V. Wall. Home: 27 Appleton Road, Glen Ridge, New Jersey.

Capt. Fritz Knust, U.S. Marine Corps, was on his second
tour of duty overseas when his letter was written in July,
1945. Home: 409 Mary Louise Drive, San Antonio, Texas.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Harry G. Kincaid spent two and a half
years in the shore based Navy and then went to sea with
the Air Group aboard the U.S.S. Franklin—‘“but not for
long.” He is now in Fallon, Nevada, with Bomb Squadron
11. Home: Fire Creek, West Virginia.

Lieutenant Alvin T. Fleishman, Navy Material Redistri-
bution and Disposal Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, says
that his marriage on the 18th of March, started a flood of
Washington and Lee alumni marriages. Home: 645 West
Whitner Street, Anderson, South Carolina.

Lieutenant Bob Peery was Supply Officer aboard the
USS Gage when his letter was written in May, 1945. Home:
North Tazewell, Virginia.

Lieutenant Henry B. Wilder, writing in May, 1945, was
still on the USS Clamour. This ship, being badly in need
of overhauling after quite a while in the forward area, was
then on slow convoy duty. Wilder is Captain of the ship.
Home: Route No. 2, Box 141, Moline, Illinois.

Lieutenant Herbert M. Woodward, Jr., after having been
in foreign service since July, 1942, was, in May, 1945, at the
Naval Supply Depot, San Pedro, California, having charge
of receiving incoming material—about 50,000 tons a month,
174 employees. Home: 1134 Larchmont Crescent, Norfolk,
Virginia. (He has been discharged since this note was writ-
ten and visited the campus in October).

 

First Lieutenant Latham L. Thigpen, Jr., has been
awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement in B-29
combat missions against Japan. His outfit, the Fifty-eighth

[ 28 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Wing, was formerly stationed in the India-China theatres
and was the first Superfortress outfit to bomb Japan. Home:
3309 Park Avenue, Richmond Virginia. (He visited the cam-
pus during the latter part of October).

Staff Sergeant Thomas S. Tuley, writing in May, 1945,
said he was on the verge of getting ready to “pull up the
gangplank.” We have had no news of his movements since
that time. Home: 403 Jarvis Lane, Louisville, Kentucky.

Lieutenant George Richard Day has been overseas since
September, 1944, with General Terry Allen’s 104th Timber-
wolf Division in Germany, and is now part of the Assembly
Area Command helping to redeploy troops. His wife lives
at 218 Crestmere Place, Memphis 12, Tennessee.

Corporal George Gassman was married July 14, 1945, to
an English girl, Jean Mary France, in Warrington, England.
Home: 1170 West Stephenson Street, Freeport, Illinois.

Lieutenant J. B. Stombock had the good fortune to spend
a seven-day leave in London in March of this year and says
he “really had a time.” He is Information and Education
Officer for the Special Troops Battalion under the Army
Educational Plan, which was getting under way when his
letter was written in May, from Hanover, Germany. (The
above was written from a letter to his Class Agent received
in May. Gus is now a civilian and has returned to Washing-
ton and Lee to finish his law course.)

Lieutenant (j.g.) Macauley Howard is a coordinator of
combat information in one of the Pacific Fleet’s new de-
stroyers. He has fought the Japanese off Luzon, Formosa,
French Indo-China, Tokyo Bay, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. He
is the son of Rear Admiral and Mrs. Herbert S. Howard of
Washington.

Staff Sergeant William LeRoy Schultheis, U.S. Army
(QM), is in Germany with the 8th Division and has been
with the First Army and the British Second Army. Home:
4520 Newport Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Staff Sergeant Clinton Van Vliet, U.S. Army Air Corps,
is with the 3lst Fighter Squadron, Palmdale Army Air Field,
Palmdale, California. Home: 1272 Hathaway Avenue, Lake-
wood, Ohio.

Lieutenant H. Tom Martin, Jr., USN, was reported lost
when the USS Quincy was sunk, later reported safe;
wounded in battle on Guadalcanal; connected with the staff
of Admiral Halsey until August, 1943; transferred to Pearl
Harbor, and then sent to the European zone. He wears the
Purple Heart, received a decoration from the RAF and the
Air Medal from the US Navy for services as a technical
observer for the RAF in England. Home: 611 Dennison
Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

Lieutenant Samuel O. Pruitt, Jr., USN, has been per-
forming the executive officer functions of a shipping con-
trol officer outside the Continental limits. Son, Robert Bruce
Pruitt, born December 18, 1944. Home: Anderson, South
Carolina.

Staff Sergeant Kenneth D. Moxley has been in England
since August, 1942, but his outfit will probably move to the
China-Burma theatre before long. Home: Fort Hill, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Charles Hobson says his days in
Washington, D.C., are drawing to a close. After precom-

\ i Bai

 

Lt. (j.g.) James G. LaPlante, °43
(See Class Note)

 

missioning duty in Newport, Rhode Island, he expects to
be aboard the “biggest Carrier of them all.’,He was a visitor
in Lexington for a short time in May. Home: 219 Shelby
Street, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Lieutenant George K. McMurran has reported for duty
aboard a cruiser of the Atlantic Fleet. Prior to his new as-
signment, Lieutenant McMurran served as flag lieutenant
for Rear Admiral B. J. Rodgers in the European theatre.
Home: 5912 Huntington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia.

Lieutenant Ben F. Ashcroft is now in San Francisco
after spending 28 months in Honolulu. He is stationed in
the District Communications Office in the Federal Build-
ing in the Civic Center where all the Conference activities
are being held. Home: Sulphur Springs, Texas.

Captain James Alcorn Russell, A.A.F., has been in China
since August, 1944. He was sent over with a group of P-51
Pilots and to date has flown 64 missions. He was recently
made Operations Officer, and has been based at Chichiang,
about 250 miles southeast of Chungking. Home: “Holly
Grove,” Jonestown, Mississippi.

Lieutenant Charles H. Chapman, Jr., U.S.N.R., has been
on a destroyer in the Mediterranean theatre for the past
three years. He has been gunnery officer for the last year
and was awarded the Bronze Star Medal in the invasion
of Southern France. Home: Dothan, Alabama.

[ 29 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Captain T. G. Morris has just returned from thirty months
overseas. He has participated in three invasions. Home:
3047 Lischer Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Lieutenant Herbert Van Voast, Jr., is home on a 30 day
leave. He has been (and will be when he returns after leave)
in command of the LST 714, in which he saw plenty of
action during the Philippine campaign. Home: 2841 Lexing-
ton Road, Louisville, Kentucky.

John H. Rozelle has been overseas with the 66th Infan-
try Division since November, 1944. Now near Lorient, France,
which is referred to as one of the “Forgotten Fronts.”
Home: 4703 Bluff View, Dallas 9, Texas.

Corporal Robert F. Walker, Signal Corps, has been
fighting in Germany. He has been overseas for about a year
and a half. Home: 234 Cary Avenue, Highland Park, Illinois.

Lieutenant Thomas C. Buford has been with the Over-
seas Supply Division, Hampton Roads Port of Embarka-
tion, Norfolk Army Base, Norfolk, Virginia. Home: Glen-
dora, Mississippi.

Lieutenant (j.g.) John T. Perry, Jr., Naval Air Corps,
was back in this country in July, 1944, after flying in South
America. He is now overseas again. Home: 701 Franklin
Avenue, Lexington, Kentucky.

Captain Lupton Avery, U.S. Army, Field Artillery,
was in the thick of things on New Guinea and Leyte. He was
awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service
at Luzon and freeing of Manila.

Corporal Frank Bedinger, Jr., U.S. Marine Corps, writes
from an overseas station but does not give any news of his
activities. He is convinced that the Marines are the best
branch of the service, but this loyalty hasn’t made such vast
inroads into his soul that he wants to choose it as a life
work. Home: Boydton, Virginia.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Allen T. Synder has been overseas on
a small aircraft carrier. He has had many interesting mo-
ments and many monotonous moments. Home: Care of Mrs.
G. H. Snyder, 201 South Easton Road, Glenside, Pennsyl-
vania.
1942

Lieutenant John Alexander, AAF, has been stationed at
Maxwell Field, Alabama, since December. He says the work
(B-29 Transition) is very interesting and the neighboring
city of Montgomery supplies several attractive young ladies
as company during leisure hours. (Since the above was
written from his class letter in May, John was married on
September 13, to Frances Aycock Cobb). Home: Leesburg,
Virginia.

Second Lieutenant Austin McCaskill, USA, Corps of
Engineers, has traveled around the country considerably and
still has hopes of passing through Lexington, and of renew-
ing friendships at Washington and Lee. However, so far, the
Army hasn’t seen it his way. Address: Room 142, Canton
Hall, Oak Ridge, ‘Tennessee.

Jack Hauslein has his own insurance business, Hauslein
Insurance Agency, 316 Walnut Street, Philadelphia 6, Penn-
sylvania. He and his wife have recently celebrated their
fourth wedding anniversary and they have a son, Jackson
A., Jr., now six months old. They have recently had a visit
from Lieutenant (j.g.) Floyd (Bud) Yeomans, 42, and his

wife. Bud is back from 18 months in Oran with the Navy
Supply Corps.

Second Lieutenant Walter G. Downie has served as a
navigator in the India-Burma and China theatres. He has
been overseas only five months but has 150 combat hours to
his credit. He wears battle stars for Central Burma and
China. Hopes to be home by Christmas, 1945.

Lee D. Parker is still at Fort Monroe doing Civil Engi-
neering with the Post Engineers. He has recently changed
his address to 309 Mallory Avenue, Hampton, Virginia.

Mike Lau graduated from Medical School and was com-
missioned a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and then put on
inactive duty to serve his nine months internship at Bellevue
Hospital in New York. He has a straight surgical internship
and says he is crazy about it. He has had several exciting
experiences since entering Bellevue—going with his ambu-
lance to the Empire State Building catastrophe and also on
another trip on V-J day to Times Square helping to take
care of drunks, casualties and stab wounds.

Captain W. B. Hopkins, USMCR, went to the South
Pacific in 1942, and returned to the States last summer. Upon
his return he was promoted to the rank of Captain and
given a thirty-day leave. Last fall he was ordered to Pan-
ama, where he has been for the past five months and ex-
pects to be there for some time to come. His letter was
written in May, 1945. Home: Rocky Mount, Virginia.

Corporal John W. Menzies is in the South Pacific with
the Sixth Marine Division. Home: 119 Iris and Orchard
Roads, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.

Lieutenant F. L. LaMotte, Jr., is now (May, 1945) in his
30th month of sea duty and on his fourth ship, the USS
Amsterdam. Home: Cowpens Farm, Towson, Maryland.

Captain Robert F. Schultz was at home on a brief leave
in May, 1945, but has now returned to the Pacific Area.
Home: 722 Birchard Avenue, Fremont, Ohio.

M.T. Sergeant William C. Wherrette, U.S. Marine Corps,
has been overseas since early in 1945. He was married about
a year and a half ago to a young lady who hails from Seattle,
but he did not divulge her name. Home: 414 East Miller
Avenue, Orlando, Florida.

Lieutenant Robert C. Walker was at his home in Lex-
ington in May after having been on duty in the Atlantic and
Mediterranean for the past eighteen months. He was to re-
port back to New York for assignment to another ship and
expected to be seeing something of the other side of the
world in the near future. Home: 110 McDowell Street, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Green Rives, Jr., in May, 1945, was stationed at an ad-
vanced bombardiering school and expected to receive his
wings in June. Home: 417 Washington Avenue, Mansfield,
Louisiana.

Corporal Junior B. Nestor, writing from Mannheim,
Germany, in July, 1945, had been overseas for 28 months and
had been in Africa, Italy, France and Germany, and was
waiting to go home on points. He has been with the Seventh
Army since Southern France. Home: 338% Clay Street,
Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Second Lieutenant John L. Dorsey, Jr., has returned
from eleven months in the E.T.O. After thirty days at home

[ 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

for “rest and recreation,” he is scheduled for the Pacific after
a short training period. Home: 223 South Main Street,
Henderson, Kentucky:

Lieutenant Edgar M. Boyd, writing in May, 1945, was com-
pleting his second year outside the States and “in the same
old spot doing the same old job.” (He had been in South
American waters). “There are still a few subs unaccounted
for so we wait and still hunt.” Home: 112 Castlewood Road,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Lieutenant Robert J. T. Mooney, Army Air Force, writes:
“We're in a rest period, after four months of ‘fun’—came
in on D-1 and followed the 37th Division down to Manila,
where we switched over to the First Cavalry; watched the
city burn for three days. It’s really a mess. Then we took
off for the hills as soon as the last Jap positions were de-
stroyed in the city, and now we're relaxing in the compara-
tive peace and quiet of a big air field.” Home: 1201 Denmark
Road, Plainfield, New Jersey.

Lieutenant R. B. Spindle, III, was on sea duty, but mostly
in port, in sunny Southern California when his letter was
written in May, 1945, where he and his wife, Kitty, have a
continuous party with their neighbors who are from V.M.I.
(Since the above note was written in May from his class
letter, Dick has been discharged from the Navy and has
entered the law school at Washington and Lee).

Lieutenant F. H. Kibling is in command of the USS
LSM (Landing Ship Medium) 108, FPO, New York. He has
also served aboard a destroyer as gunnery officer. Home:
89 Springfield Street, Wilbraham, Massachusetts.

Lieutenant John H. Peacock was on his way back to the
Pacific the latter part of May, 1945, after about a year’s
additional training at Photo Schools. He is still a photo-
graphic interpreter. Home: 12 West Irving Street, Chevy
Chase, Maryland.

Lieutenant Joseph A. Overton, Jr., writing in May from
an Army Air Field where he was training for B-29’s, ex-
pected to be out of the States within a month. Home: 1320
Seventh Street, Parkersburg, West Virginia.

Lieutenant John Barrie, Jr., is in the Medical Administra-
tion Corps and is working in the hospital at Laughlin Field
on the Mexican Border. He handles all hospital supplies and
transportation, the various hospital funds, and is also in
charge of the mess and its various records. He was married
on March 31, 1945, to -Virginia Lucille Feagans of St.
Louis, Missouri. Home: 132 Halfenstein Avenue, Webster
Groves, St. Louis, Missouri.

Lieutenant W. J. Daniel says since his last class letter
he has traveled many nautical miles and is now in the
Pacific, still with a group of LST’s. Stopped by the States on
his way out and picked up a 30-day leave. After Normandy
his ships went down to the Mediterranean for Southern
France. Home: New Albany, Mississippi.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Robert F. Campbell, Jr., U.S. Navy,
is again overseas on the USS Kitkun Bay, after a 20-day
leave in the U.S.A., and about a month’s duty on the West
Coast. Home: 6 Pearson Drive, Asheville, North Carolina.

Lieutenant (j.g.) E. Robert Cavanna says he has been
knocking around on sub chasers, repair ships, etc. His ship
is the USS Stentor, out of New York. Home: 2120 16th
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

 

lst Lt. Kenneth W. Hovermale, *45
(See Class Note)

 

Lieutenant (j.g.) William Francis Moffett, Jr., is C.O. of a
small freighter in the Southwest Pacific, where he has been
for fifteen months. Home: Washington, Virginia. (See cover)

Lieutenant E. C. Alevizatos was back in the States in
July for a thirty-day leave after over two years in the South-
west Pacific, and was to report to the Naval Air Station in
Jacksonville, Florida, for duty. Home: 1700 East 33rd Street,
saltimore, Maryland.

Lieutenant Bernie Levin, writing on June 1, 1945, had
completed thirty months in the Pacific Area on the U.S.S.
Converse. Home: 4601 Cottage Toll Road, Norfolk, Virginia.

Lieutenant Robert William Root was in Pearl Harbor for
three months. On Christmas Eve, 1944, went to sea on the
Enterprise and has been into the South Sea for raids on
French Indo China and China, and has been in all the invas-
ions since Christmas as well as the first carrier raid on
Tokyo and the rest of Japan. “The Franklin was with us
when she was hit and I watched her burn.” Home: 6301
Hillcrest Place, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Lieutenant Ned Harold Brower, after an eighteen months
tour of duty, went back to the Pacific as commanding officer
of the LCS (L) (3) 15. Ship was attacked by the Japs off
Okinawa and sunk. He came out without a scratch, although
he says he can’t say that for a lot of other fellows. Back in
the States and was married June 16 to a Wave who was sta-

[ St |

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tioned at the Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Virginia. Now
on 30-day leave, but expects to be sent back to sea again as
a replacement skipper on another LCS. Home: 3719 Reading
Road, Crescent Apartments, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Charlton Thomas Fuller, U.S.N., after
serving in the North Atlantic as Anti-Submarine Warfare
Officer on a Destroyer Escort, is now on the USS Fremont,
FPO, San Francisco, California. Home: Willow Brook Farm,
Catasaugua, Pennsylvania.

Lieutenant Henry M. Yonge graduated from ‘Tulane
Medical School in August, 1945, and was commissioned a
First Lieutenant in the Medical Corps, inactive status. He
will interne at the Medical College of Virginia Hospital in
Richmond, Virginia. Home: 122 West Lloyd Street, Pen-
sacola, Florida.

Corporal Ernest S. Hildebrand, Jr., U.S. Marine Corps,
has been in the Pacific Area since June, 1944. Home: 97
North Main Street, Hartford, Connecticut. ~

Lieutenant John W. Greene was recently promoted from
second to first lieutenant while serving on the Fifth Army
Front in Italy. He is now a battalion reconnaissance and
survey officer in the 91st Armored Field Artillery Battalion,
First Armored Division. Formerly he was a reconnaissance
officer. He has served overseas since May, 1942. Home: Care
of Ashby T. Greene, Timber Ridge, Virginia.

William Daniel Bradley, Jr., left Washington and Lee in
the fall of 1939, enrolled in the University of Georgia, and
at the end of the year was employed by the Collins and Glen-
vill Railroad Company, a small road in Georgia. He worked
as flagman, conductor, fireman and engineer and finally, as
Assistant to the President. Enlisted in Naval Air Corps but
was rejected for physical reasons. In 1942 he returned tc ine
University of Georgia to take pilot training under the civilian
pilot training program. Finished that course, joined the Army
Air Forces and was assigned to inactive duty training Army
Cadets for civilian contract schools in the capacity of Civilian
Flight Instructor. Called to active duty in March, 1945
and is now at Keesler Field, Mississippi, awaiting reassign-
ment. Home: Hagan, Georgia.

William (Bill) Dowling, Jr., is now a Master Sergeant as-
signed to the Army Transport Command, in Germany with
the Army of Occupation. He has been married for about
four years. Home: Slater, Florida.

Lieutenant Beverley W. Lee, Jr., U.S.A. Engineers, at-
tended the School for Personnel Services on the campus
July 18 to August 15, 1945. He has been stationed at the
Army Service Forces Regional Hospital at Camp Lee, Vir-
ginia, since the latter part of December, 1944. His present
duty is that of Personal Affairs officer at the Hospital, ex-
plaining the many and varied benefits available to veterans
and their dependents. He hopes to return to Washington and
Lee to complete his college work. He was married in June
to Miss Katherine A. Keith of Scranton, Pennsylvania.

1943

Master Sergeant Walter Browder is now stationed in the
Philippines. Has been overseas for nine months and four
campaigns. Home: Dean Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Private First Class Jack C. Murrell has served thirteen
months in the European theatre of operations, where he re-

ceived the Purple Heart with oak leaf cluster for wounds
received in combat against the enemy, the Combat Infantry-
man badge and the European campaign ribbon with three
battle stars. He is now back in the United States being
processed for reassignment. Home: 3826 Creswell Street,
Shreveport, Louisiana.

Ensign George Warren (“Jim”) Priest says he is trying
to teach the Dibbets of America how to fly an airplane.
Home: Rural Route No. 7, Houk Road, Dayton, Ohio.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Ted Ciesla has spent the last eighteen
months in the Southwest Pacific Area with LCT amphibious
landing craft. Home: 100 Market Street, Garfield, New

Jersey.

Lieutenant (j.g.) C. L. (Connie) Inman, Jr., writes from
somewhere in the Pacific. He is in the Dental Corps of the
U.S.N.R. Home: 3504 Grantley Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

Thomas G. Wilson was in the Army but now has a med-
ical discharge and is working for the Curtiss-Wright Cor-
poration, Columbus, Ohio. Home: 1676 King Avenue, Co-
lumbus 8, Ohio.

James S. Parsons has been doing chemical research work
with the Westvaco Chemical Products Corporation in a plant
and laboratory located about twenty miles from New York
City. Most of last year was spent in helping with the de-
velopment of a process for making D.D.T., the insecticide
which has meant so much to the allied world, and in the
synthesis of other organic materials for possible uses as
insecticides. Home: Rahway, New Jersey.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Beverly T. Fitzpatrick is still an attack
transport salvage officer somewhere in the Pacific. Home:
909 Palmetto Avenue, Grove Park, Roanoke, Virginia.

Ensign Bernard Pirog, U.S. Naval Air Corps is some-
where in the Pacific. Home: 98 Semel Avenue, Garfield, New
Jersey.

Lieutenant Edmond D. Wells, U.S. Army Air Force, is
a pilot of a B-25 now somewhere in the Pacific. Home: Care
of Dr. Edmond D. Wells, Mercedes, Texas.

Lieutenant Robert Arthur Hancock, U.S. Army (Infan-
try), has been overseas three years. He is now in Paris, and
hopes to be back in this country before long. His family
sold their home in Louisville, Kentucky, and have been un-
able to find a place to live since. They hope to be back in
Louisville by the time he returns.

Richard M. Roberts, U.S. Army, is in Germany. Home:
Care of C. KE. Varney, Milford, Delaware.

Lieutenant Emmett T. Drake recently arrived at the
Fourth Air Force’s Army Air Field, Mountain Home, Idaho,
for duty assignment. He entered the service in October,
1942, received his commission and pilot wings in July, 1943.
He holds the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Distinguished
Unit Citation, and the Air Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster.
Home: Care of EK. B. Drake, Bay Shore, Long Island, New
Y ork.

Corporal Adelbert B. Conley, Jr., U.S. Army, is back in
this country after having been in England. Home: Route 6,
sox 210, San Jose Boulevard, Jacksonville, Florida.

James A. Jones has been in the army for over two years,
and overseas for 13 months; in the thick of things since July,

| 32 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1944. He was recently awarded the Bronze Star Medal for
meritorious service in France. Excellent work in treating
the wounded combat men brought him the recognition he
deserved and the award. Home: Route 1, Staunton, Virginia.

Lieutenant Morrison Ray (Jug) Nelson, U.S. Marine
Corps, thinks he has been treated pretty well since he is now
a sea-going Marine. Home: 1405 Goddard Avenue, Louisville,
Kentucky.

Ensign William J. Noonan, Naval Air Corps, received
his Navy Wings on May, 22, and was married to Margaret
Loving of West Point, Mississippi, on May 23. He expects
to be stationed in Pensacola. Home: 1421 North Baylen
Street, Pensacola, Florida.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Grant E. Mouser has been serving on
destroyer escort since graduation from midshipman’s school.
He is communications officer aboard his ship and has spent
all his time in the Atlantic on convoy duty to Europe, Pan-
ama, etc. Home: 527 East Church Street, Marion, Ohio.

Second Lieutenant Melvin Carl Johnson, U.S. Marine
Corps, was commissioned September 22, 1943, and writes

from overseas. Home: 109 Port Deposit Avenue, Bel Air,
Maryland.

Lieutenant Russell Hugh Neilson, Jr., transferred from
the Naval Air Corps to Marine Corps Reserve, is now
based in New York with a fighter ferry command squadron.
His letter tells of an interesting meeting with Captain George
Blackburn, ’43, in the Philippines. They had a reunion on a
guerilla-held airfield on Mindanao before U.S. Troops had
landed on the island. Russ had been forced down and George
was bringing in supplies to the guerilla troops. Home: 70
Pomeroy Road, Madison, New Jersey.

Second Lieutenant Frank Socha, Army Air Corps, at-
tended O.C.S. at Fort Belvoir and was commissioned Second
Lieutenant. Received overseas orders in December, 1943, and
arrived in Africa soon after. He was next assigned to an
Engineer outfit in Italy and saw action up to Grossetto. Back
to Naples his outfit prepared for the invasion of Southern
France, and he has been in France since August 12, D-Day.
Home: 72 Semel Avenue, Garfield, New Jersey.

Master Sergeant Gene Ira Kaufman, U.S. Army left the
States several weeks ago for somewhere in the South Pacific.
Home: 185 Lorraine Avenue, Mount Vernon, New York.

Private First Class Hinman Brown Hawks is now in
England with a Headquarters Detachment at an Air Base.
Home: Care of Mrs. M. H. Viall, 115 Grandview Terrace,
Bennington, Vermont.

Ensign Donald Leo Richardson, U.S. Navy, is in the
Western Pacific, and with the Army. He helps them direct
their fire from the beach. He has been overseas 22 months.
Home: 19921 Warrington Drive, Detroit 21, Michigan.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Joseph F. Ellis, Jr., is still in the Pacific,
being gunnery officer on a destroyer. Except for a short time
when they were in the States for repairs about a year ago,
he has been in the Pacific for about 21 months, and at last
accounts had participated in some fifteen or more major

landings and sea engagements. Home: Clarksdale, Missis-
sippi.
Lieutenant Edwin A. Zelnicker has been awarded the

fourth oak leaf cluster to the Air Medal, equivalent to the

    

  

» - . se

Washington and Lee representation, U.S. Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Maryland. Left to right—Robert S. Curl, °47,
A. Willis Robertson, Jr., 46, Marshall T. Steves, 44, Jack B.
Coulter, 45, and Willard F. Searle, Jr., ’45. Steves, Coulter
and Searle graduated on June 6, 1945, and are now Ensigns
in the U.S. Navy; Robertson will graduate in June, 1946, and
Curl in June, 1947.

 

fifth award of the medal. He is serving as a navigator with
a B-17 Flying Fortress unit of the Eighth Air Force. Home:
253 Park Terrace, Mobile, Alabama.

Robert F. MacCracken has been on his present assign-
ment in the Aleutians for 21 months. He is attached to In-
telligence, Headquarters, 11th Air Force. Home: 16 South
26th Street, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.

Frank Rosebro Bell is flying a B-24 in Navy Recon-
naissance and has run into many Washington and Lee bud-
dies since going out. Home: 26 Ruffner Avenue, Charleston,
West Virginia.

Ensign Robert P. Haley is on an L.C.I. “somewhere in
the Pacific.” He speaks constantly of the teriffic heat. Home:
900 Lincoln Avenue, Palmyra, New Jersey.

Lieutenant Philip K. Shute, Army Air Corps, was in the
Aleutians as a Navigator from June, 1943, to September, 1945.
He was recently awarded the Air Medal. On leave, Phil
visited the Alumni office in October. Home: Accord, Massa-
chusetts.

Lieutenant S. L. Kopald, Jr., was serving with a
Quartermaster Truck Company in the Third Army in France,
now in Germany. Home: 591 Center Drive, Memphis, Tenn-
essee.

Lieutenant Ernest E. Smith, U.S. Army, Infantry, is over-
seas, probably in Belgium. Home: 45 Gansevroot Boulevard,
West New Brighton, Staten Island, New York.

Captain Warren M. Stuart has had quite an experience
in the army—Africa, Italy, Southern France, the Vosges
Mountains, and from latest reports his outfit spearheaded
the attack on Nuernberg. He has seen a lot of action in
command of a Rifle Company. He has been awarded the
Silver Star, the Bronze Star, and the Oak Leaf Cluster for

[ 33

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the Silver Star. He has recently been made Battalion Adju-
tant. Home: 10943 Longwood Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

Lieutenant (j.g.) J. Morrison Hutcheson, Jr., has been in
the Pacific area for over a year and hopes to get back to the
States before too long. Home: 1812 Park Avenue, Richmond
20, Virginia.

Ensign Lawrence C. Sullivan was on an LCI in the
Mediterranean a year ago and was in Africa, Italy, Corsica
and France and had his fill of seeing the world. Returned
to the States in December. Home: Blackstone, Virginia.

Warrant Officer (j.g.) Frank Jarvis, after serving as
assistant personnel officer at Karachi, India, expected to be
sent to China in the near future. He was in his 26th month
out there and says he has seen enough of the mystic Far
Kast to last a lifetime. Home: 175 South High Street, Colum-
bus, Ohio.

Corporal Barton Morris has recently returned from a
year and a half in Europe and is now luxuriating in a thirty-
day leave. Home: 306 Wycliffe Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

Lieutenant Bob Gargas, after spending six months in
‘Germany, says his unit is now in process of redeployment
to the Pacific, at Camp Polk, Louisiana, where they ex-
pect to be for several months. Speaking of Washington and
lee men he has met in his travels, he says; “Paul Thomas,
42, had a piano in a trailer that he took all across France
with the 30th Division.”

J. Tyler (Bud) Bowie, with his wife, who was Dorothy
Susan Warner, were visitors to the campus during the sum-
mer. Bud received a medical discharge from the Army, and
is now with the Bowie Supply Company, 510 Delaware
Avenue, $.W., Washington 4, D.C.

Lieutenant (j.g.) James G. LaPlante is attached to the
staff of the Atlantic Fleet Antisubmarine Warfare unit, Nor-
folk, Virginia. Since April, 1944, he has served as antisub-
marine warfare specialist aboard a destroyer, a destroyer
escort, and an escort carrier in the Atlantic. Home: 2030
Grasmere Drive, Louisville, Kentucky.

1944

Ensign William B. Van Buren has been serving aboard
a destroyer for the past 10 or 11 months. He was recupera-
ting from an operation at home when his class letter was
written.

Ensign Bertram J. Myers writes from overseas, but
gives no news of his activities. Home: 1038 Redgate, Norfolk,
Virginia.

Corporal Robert H. Seal is back in technical school again

learning something about remote control turrets. Home:
Lexington, Virginia.
Charles Lewis Rast, Jr., and Bill Runyan, U.S. Naval

Reserve, are in their second year at medical school, Johns-
Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland.

Technician Fourth Grade Robert W. Milliron entered the
Army on October 7, 1942; was shipped to England and
crossed the channel with the Invasion Force on June 6, 1944.
After serving in France and Normandy he is now located
somewhere in Belgium. Home: 179 Washington Avenue,
Vandergrift, Pennsylvania.

Ensign Howard B. Peabody, Jr., U.S. Merchant Marine,
has made interesting trips all around the world, but gives
no information from which a class note can be written.
Home: Care of A. B. Learned, Natchez, Mississippi.

Ensign Walter S. Pope writes from overseas but does
not give any news from which a class note can be written.
Home: 105 Chews Landing Road, Haddonfield, New Jersey.

Staff Sergeant Julian Stuart Smith, Army Air Force, had
been overseas two years in July. The squadron has been in
New Guinea, Netherlands East Indies and the Philippines.
The island he is on now is dusty but has a good place to
swim, although he has seen better. Home: Care of Mrs.
Julia W. Smith, Lexington, Virginia.

Lieutenant Frederick B. Rowe graduated from the Naval
Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, July 29, 1944, and was
commissioned a lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.
He is now with a Marine Transport Squadron and sees
many Washington and Lee men in his travels. Home: 22
Johnson Street, Waterbury 24, Connecticut.

Staff Sergeant Edward C. Waddington, Jr., has been
stationed in England. His unit was awarded the Presidential
Citation for “making immeasurable contribution to the suc-
cess of the greatest air-borne operation in military history.”
This unit also spearheaded the invasion of Southern France
and Holland. Home: 206 North Main Street, Woodstown,
New Jersey.

Lieutenant Stancliff C. Elmore, U.S. Army, has been
transferred to an Infantry outfit and is now somewhere in
Germany. Home: Care of Mrs. Doris Churchill Gray, 2129
dancroft Place, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Lieutenant W. R. Malloy, Army Air Corps, was com-
missioned March 20, 1945, and was assigned to Independence
Army Air Field as a basic instructor: reassigned to Smyrna,
Tennessee, air base. Has finished the transition course for
B-24, and is awaiting further training at Smyrna for 29's.
He was married to Elizabeth Kavanaugh, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, on February 22, 1944. Home: 100 East Sycamore
Street, Independence, Kansas.

Technician Fourth Grade Roy Dennis Prentiss is serving
with the Tenth Army on Okinawa. Home: Care of Mrs.
Dennes Zeletzky, 21566 Mastick Road, Cleveland, Ohio.

1945

Second Lieutenant Roland C. Rhea has been awarded
the third Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal. He is a member
of the Fortress group which led the first American bomb-
ing attack on targets in Berlin, and which was cited by the
President for its outstanding bombing assaults on railroad
marshalling yards at Munster, Germany, in 1943. Home: 201
Kast 9th Street, Russellville, Kentucky.

Ensign D. W. Foerster, U.S.N.R., is attached to the At-
lantic Fleet flying anti-sub patrol. Expects to be off for the
Kast before long. Home: 3339 Oak Street, Jacksonville,
Florida.

Lieutenant Roy Drake Witte, U.S. Army Air Forces,
has been flying as a navigator on a 12th Air Force B-25
Mitchell bomber in the Mediterranean theatre. This group
has twice engaged in cutting off the German stream of
supplies to Kesserring’s forces by systematic cutting of

| 34 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Northern Italy bridges and sealing off the Brenner pass rail
line. He was awarded the Air Medal and two clusters and
the Purple Heart. (Since the above note was written in May
from his class letter, Roy has returned to Washington and
Lee.)

Captain Eugene E. Burcham, U.S. Army Air Forces, is
a squadron bombardier in England. He has had 41 missions
in this theatre. Home: 118 West Main Street, Millville, New
Jersey. (He is now back at Washington and Lee.)

John L. Crist, Jr.. Merchant Marine, had recently ‘“ship-
ped out on another trip to Europe” when his class letter
was written. He is now back at Washington and Lee.

Corporal Charles C. Stieff, II, U.S. Army, is now located
in England, probably near London. Home: 108 Ridgewood
Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

Ensign Myron J. McKee, Jr., is now senior officer on his
ship, participating in the Philippines campaign. Home: 4510
Park Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Technician Fifth Grade Philip P. Page, Jr., is in an En-
gineer Petroleum distribution company somewhere in North-
ern France. Home: 1124 Maple Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

Ensign E. J. Blanken, USNR, has been in the Pacific for
some months. Home: Box 26, Maplewood, New Jersey.

Sergeant William B. Geise, Jr., U.S. Army, inducted in
February, 1943, is now in the Pacific Area. Home: 253 Rey-
nolds Street, Kingston, Pennsylvania.

First Lieutenant Kenneth W. Hovermale, B-25 Mitchell
Bomber pilot, was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross,
for extraordinary achievement while participating in = an
aerial attack upon a railroad yard at Trento, Italy, January
20, 1945. Home: Cheriton, Virginia.

Robert Ewing graduated from Yale Law School in Oc-
tober and has passed the Connecticut State Bar examinations.
He will practice in Hartford. He was a recent visitor to the
campus and asked us to publish in the Alumni Magazine his
apology for failure to reply to letters from fraternity brothers
and classmates, mentioning particularly Bill Sizemore, Bob
Haley, Jack Lanich and Paul Murphy.

William Corwin Mowris, A.S., V-12, has been at Little
Creek, Virginia, for two months, but expects to be Tokyo
bound before long. Home: 328 Seneca Parkway, Rochester 4,
New York.

1946

Ensign Durwood D. Weaver, when last heard from, was in
port after action at Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Home: James
Street, Richfield Springs, New York.

Private First Class John C. Short has been overseas
eleven months. He was wounded July 7, 1944, in combat dur-
ing the battle of St. Lo, France. After being dismissed from a
U.S. Hospital in England, he was reassigned to the criminal
investigation branch of the Military Police. At present in
Germany. Home: 2828 East Pleasant Street, Davenport,
lowa.

1947
Aviation Cadet Thomas R. Watkins is in training at

Luke Field, Phoenix, Arizona. Home: 325 59th Street, New-
port News, Virginia.

Helps Plan Invasion of Sicily

Robert Loring Wilson, A.B. ’42, was in the officers re-
serve corps when he was called from Washington and Lee
to enter the Army in 1942, with the rank of Second Lieu-
tenant in the Infantry, and sent to Camp Roberts, California,
as an instructor in basic training of draftees.

In April, 1942, he left Camp Roberts and joined the 45th
Division in Texas. After many months of training, he was
suddenly put on secret orders of Admiral Hewett on De-
tached Service with Submarine Squadron A of the North
Atlantic Fleet; working from a submarine on the delicate
job of pre-invasion reconnissance and marking beaches for
assault amphibian troops. Having completed the experiments
and perfecting the secret techniques involved he returned
to his division and the 179th Regiment, where he was pro-
moted to First Lieutenant.

They set sail for combat in June, 1943. He was attached
to the 45th (Thunderbird) Division which had among its
personnel 1800 pure Indians from Oklahoma who, just be-
fore sailing, performed a native war dance rigged out in full
Indian regalia. Bill Mauldin, the now famous cartoonist, was
a part of the outfit. The ships were “combat loaded” and they
were to land fighting. This they did in Sicily on July 10,
1943, as part of the great 7th Army commanded by General
Patton. Wilson went into Sicily with six men eight hours
ahead of the invasion to carry on the work previously done
from the submarine. It was a dangerous bit of work but
successful even though they drew tremendous fire from the
enemy. Having completed pre-invasion work they rejoined
their regiment on the beaches and fought out the Sicilian
campaign. All of these men received the Silver Star for
gallantry in action and a divisional citation for bravery.
Wilson was made second in command, or executive officer
of the company.

They next hit Salerno, Italy, in September, 1943, where
the beaches were almost lost and the fighting was extremely
bloody. From Salerno they pushed into the center of Italy,
made contact with the Eighth Army (British), turned north
to begin the most difficult and bloodiest mountain campaign
fought in Europe. Wilson was severely wounded by con-
cussion of railway artillery on the Cassino line; spent a
month and a half regaining his memory and getting the
paralysis out of his legs in a general hospital. Leaving the
hospital he was put on limited service and transferred to Al-
lied Force Headquarters, Mediterranean Theatre of Opera-
tions, where he has been since that time investigating claims
made against the United States and recently, war crimes.
He has been a Captain since June, 1944, and awarded the
Combat Infantry Badge.

Home address: Care of Roger A. Wilson, 1809 North
Queen’s Lane, Colonial Village, Arlington, Virginia.

 

THE MAN WAS ROBBED?

A Rabbi who was soliciting funds for an Alumni Fund
in one of our largest institutions approached one of the
wealthiest men in his community who was an alumnus of
the school and asked him for a donation. The Alumnus told
the Rabbi in no uncertain terms that he had paid his bills
when a student and did not owe them a dam cent and would
not give them a dam cent no matter what happened. The
Rabbi looked at him and said, “You are right, you got
cheated, what you should do is sue them and get your money
back, you were robbed.”

[ 33 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

| LTHOUGH a large order for Washington

and Lee plates was placed many months ago only a small shipment has

been received in this country, and we have no assurance as to further

deliveries.

The Alumni Office has been overwhelmed with orders for plates

since the advertisement appeared in the January issue of the magazine,

and we have no plates for sale until a further shipment is received.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

