iO hethta=) e531

gton and Lee

Washin

 

 

MARCH, 1943

 

 

~

SC Pers

oN

 

Class Agents for 1943

1942A—Robert T. Vaughan, Box 8, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia,

1942L—Homer A. Jones, Jr., 2514 South Adams Street, Arna
Valley, Apartment 3, Arlington, Virginia.

1941A—Paul D. Brown, 2731 Lorcom Lane, Arlington, Vir-
ginia.

1941L—Pete S. Barrow, 1551 Virginia St., Charleston, West
Virginia.

1940A—Ensign A. Lea Booth, 136 West Main St., Danville,
Virginia.

1940L—Stanford L. Schewel, Alumni Office, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.

1939A—Charles H. Semple, Jr., 2511 Ransdell Ave., Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

1939L—John L. Hawkins, II, Kanawha Valley Bank Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

1938A—Harry M. Philpott, 409 Prospect Street, New Haven,
Connecticut.

1938L—-Dwight A. File, Beckley, West Virginia.

1937A—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

1937_L—Edwin M. Marks, J. Goldsmith & Sons Co., Memphis,
Tennessee.

1936A—James L. Price, Jr., Princeton Theological Seminary,
Princeton, New Jersey.

1936L—W. E. (Tex) Tilson, Lexington, Virginia.

1935A—William Schuhle, Jr., Box 472, Ponchatoula, Louisi-
ana,

1935L—Meredith Graham, Jr., National City Bank of Rome,
Rome, Georgia.

1934A—Foster M. Palmer, Harvard College Library, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts.

1934L—Henry Taylor Jones, 508 Consolidated Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., American Life Bldg., Louisville,
Kentucky.

1933L—J. J. Framptom, Jr., 110 West Central Ave., Federals-
burg, Maryland.

1932A—John Clinton Harris, Scottsboro, Alabama.

1932L—Albert G. Peery, Tazewell, Virginia.

1931A—Frank T. Bready, 100 Hudson St., New York, New
Y ork.

1931L—Alumni Office.

1930A—Kenneth L. Keil, 1015 Myers Building, Spring‘icld,
Illinois.

1930L—Leonard H. Davis, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia.

1929A—Irwin T. Sanders, University of Kentucky, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky.

1929L—Philip R. Becker, 12 Floor, Callahan Building, Day-
ton, Ohio.

1928A—F. M. P. Pearse, Jr., 1637 Underwood St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

1928L—George Oldham Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Build-
ing, Louisville, Kentucky.

1927A—Jim Cox Wilbourn, Meridian, Mississippi.

1927L—George D. Varney, 4 Market St., Portsmouth, New
Hampshire.

1926A—Thomas P. Foley, 151 West 49th Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana.

1926L—Earl Valentine, Lexington, Virginia.

1925A—Bruce F. Gannaway, 1211 Naldo, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1925L—William A. McRitchie, Guaranty Trust Company, 140
Broadway, New York, New York.

1924A—W. Goodridge Sale, Jr., Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

1924L—John W. Greene, Park National Dank Bldg., Knox-
ville, Tennessee.

1923A—D. Raymond Snively, P. O.
Maryland.

Box 470, Hagerstown,

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   

1923L—Emmett W. Poindexter, 120 Broadway, New Yoru
New York.
1922A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Williams Building, Orlande
Florida.
1922L—William E. Neblett, Lunenburg, Virginia.
1921A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Building, St. Louj
Missouri.
1921L—R. C. Wood, Peoples National Bank Building, Lynch
burg, Virginia.
1920A—Thos. McA. Stubbs, 1010 Rhodes-Haverty Building
Atlanta, Georgia.
1920L—L. Berkeley Cox, Legal Department, Aetna Life Ings
Co., Hartford, Conn.
—Leonard T. Brown, 700 W. Jackson Blvd., Bridg
port, Connecticut.
—Homer A. Holt, Kanawha Valley Bank Building
Charleston, West Virginia.
1917A—James A. Lee, McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 3
West 42nd Street, New York, New York.
1917_L—Lafayette B. Chafin, Prosecuting Attorney, William
son, West Virginia.
1916A—Harrison P. Magruder, 2359 Ashmead Place, N.W
Washington, D. C.
1916L—Earl B. Rose, 537 N.
tucky.
1915A—Charles R. Beall, Peoples Trust Building, Martins
burg, West Virginia.
1915L—J. D. Trimble, Trimble Bldg., El Dorado, Arkansz
1914A—Henry N. Barker, 10 Sixth St., Bristol, Tennessee
1914L—R. Lee Beuhring, First Huntington Bank Building
Huntington, West Virginia.
1913A—C. C. Moore, The Meter Parts Company, 243 North
Fifth Street, Columbus, Ohio.
1913L—Henry B. Goodloe, 215 Fifth Street, N.I., Char
lottesville, Virginia.
1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Virginia.
1912L—Russell B. Wine, National Bank of Commerce Bldg.
San Antonio, Texas.
1911A—F. P. Guthrie, 1112 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Wash
ington, D. C.
1911L—Omer T. Kaylor, Hagerstown, Maryland.
1910A—C. W. Streit, 608 Protective Life Building, Birming
ham, Alabama. |
1910L—Orange W. Richardson, 803 Columbia Building, Pitts
burg, Pennsylvania.
1909A—John W. Claudy, R.F.D. 3 Bellefonte, Pennsylvaniz
1909L—Guyte P. McChord, Tallahassee, Florida.
1908A—Horace W. Phillips, Hardeeville, South Carolina.
1903L—Hiram M. Dow, Roswell, New Mexico.
1907 —E. Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
1906 —Henry C. Tillman, Suite 504, First National Bank
Building, Tampa, Florida.
—Alumni Office.
—J. B. Akers, 3415 Fulton Street, N.W., Washing
ten. 124.
—Rev. Cary R. Blain, [llerbe, North Carolina.
—W. Dewey Cooke, I’. O. Box 1185, Savannah, Georgié
—Alumni Office.
—Samuel Ruffin Horne, Fayetteville, North Carolina.
—Alumni Office.
—Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street, Chi
cago, Illinois.
—Alumni Office.
—J. W. Lattomus, Citizens Bank Building, W ilming-
ton, Delaware.

1919

1918

sSroadway, Lexington, Ken

1905
1904

1903
1902
1901
1900
1899
1898

1897
1896

1895 —Alumni Office.

1894 —Alumni Office.

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, New Yor
1892 —Dr. E. L. Green, University of South Carolina, Co-

lumbia, South Carolina.

ee
Appalachetimmerson, Bristol, Va.

Arkansas __ Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,

sete Rock, Ark.
orgia te
Atlanta, Genre Cc. and S. Bank Building

. Maryland
ee timer G. Yountk 2906 Guilford Avenue

 

cent , Alabama i
Birming na rendon. 1631 North Third Avenue Published by
C Steal Kentucky The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
e go doe
Joe Arnold, Lexington Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

ton, West Virginia an
Charles Capito, United Carbon Building

J ‘Toistaanon Eentered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
nooga, ; eee oe . -
Chatten Avery, at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924
icago, Illinois
Ow Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street $2.50 a Year

‘~cinnati, Ohio
ee Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street
lotte, North Carolina :
or et L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045 Vol. XVIII MARCH. loa ae

land, Ohio sc
as Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
Carl V. Harris

 

 

Cumberland Valley RSA oS aks, *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md. , ey
Danville, Virginia Managing EGttor,..2. Gases ci ach MARY BARCLAY

W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments

etroit, Michigan
- Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co. Se

Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.

au Stream ss) Rarns, Miami, Fie. THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building President... fee Joun C. Morrison, 1925
Jacksonville, Florida sy ;

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg. Vice-President... RANDOLPH G. WHITTLE, 1924
Lynchburg, Virginia

TO eee Secretary.......... ..*HarrY K. (Cy) Younce, 1917

Louisville, Kentucky
Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Memphis, Tennessee
L. V. Butler, 60 S. Front Street
New York, New York
Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana Cc T CHENERY 1909
Norfolk, Virginia _ eae ae sions : ’
Leonard Davis, Citizens Ban uilding > , 9

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas RocEr BEar, 1914

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia Joun L. Crist, 1913

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania RicHarbD T. Epwarps, 1933

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

A. Stacey Gifford. Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 2,

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building O
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

et eee
Poudan Gasieloe ‘Jewett, 1500 West 4ist St. Contents for March, 1943

Roanoke, Virginia Ws
E. H. Ould Prospect Hills PAGE
Rockingham County , nr : ;
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va. Assurances and Needs (The President's Page.............. 3
San Antonio, Texas a 3:
Albert Steves III Musical and Dramatic Organizations.............................. 4
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Army Reserves Called to Active Duty.....................0...... 7
Los Angeles, California ' i

St. Louis, Missouri
Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State : ; SC , 7
George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va. Recapitulation of Winter Sports.......... et a a A ool 12
Upper-Potomac :
-. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md. PONT Ih Raa ios cbc baa bik, oe Seki 13
Washington, D. C.
Charles F,. Suter, Union Trust Building DRE hs: Sa Gis RE tS Io eee 15
Waynesboro, Virginia
Harry A. Lough

a * On leave of absence for the duration.

FYBGSUSET DS ee. *Dr. REmp WuHuire, 1919

Additions to List of Alumni in Service.......................... 9

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Assurances and Needs

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

HAT president of a college for men who would say
i cything with certainty about the present circum-
stances in the domain of education would certainly be a
brave and probably a rash man. Such
institutions are in what is almost a whirl-
pool of furious mutations, and it is diffi-
cult for individuals concerned not to be

(lizzy.

If I say that during the present session
we have already lost about half of the
students that began this year, our friends
will understand one factor of our uncer-
tainty. Probably two-thirds of those now
in the student body, members of the Naval
and Marine Reserves, will be called to an
active status at the end of the present
semester. In the light of large excitements
such important facts as our first mid-year
commencement, with the graduation of
about fifty boys, become almost unnoticed details.

Let me give this as my first assurance, that the insti
tution will be open next year for regular students. There
are not many boys in the United States who can come to
a college of their own choosing as regular students, but
certainly boys who are not of draft age may enroll.

My second assurance is that we shall be on an acceler-
ated plan and that the young boy who can enroll will
cover much more ground educationally than he could
formerly in the same period of calendar time.

Of course we shall be open for boys of any age who
do not meet the physical standards for military service,
and for boys who may take such specialized courses as
afford occupational deferments.

We have rented certain of our facilities to the Army
School for Special Service—if I may repeat—and we are
engaged at this moment in conversations with the military
authorities concerning our acceptance of an undergradu-

[ 3

 

ate unit of men on active status. In all our plans, how-
ever, we have taken into account regular students who
wish to come to Washington and Lee by their own voli-
tion. We shall have for these boys as ef-
fective instruction as we have ever had,
and we shall have as many of the useful
and attractive features of college life as
we can maintain though most of these
features, | must confess, are suspended
for the duration of this emergency.

*k ok *

There are two things that I wish to
say to our alumni out of all the earnest-
ness of my heart—first, short of losing
the war itself, perhaps the greatest loss
America could suffer would be a crip-
pling of the independent institutions of
higher learning. ‘Those words are trite and
possibly cold, but they come from my soul
with a kind of burning passion. Relative forces may be
set in motion which could prevent the recovery of these
institutions, including Washington and Lee, from the
state of relative suspension in which they are now com-
pelled to exist. Alumni of such colleges must be on the
alert if we are to maintain our great agencies for freedom
of thought and freedom of culture.

Second, the alumni will help us most generously, |
hope, in connection with the current Class Agent Fund.
These are difficult times financially. We agreed, for ex-
ample, that all boys who entered the second semester
and were called into military service before college credit
could be obtained would receive refunds, and Mr. Mat-
tingly actually wrote out checks for about $18,000 for
refunds in less than two days. If Washington and Lee is
to survive for a great future which will be comparable
with its great past, naturally we must survive during
this period of crisis. | know the alumni will not fail us.

Pe fake A

President

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Musical and Dramatic Organizations

By J. G. VARNER

Director of Musical and Dramatic Organizations

Cy December 10, 1943; Timothy Shay Arthur's fam-
ous tear-jerker, Ten Nights in a Barroom and What
! Saw There, went on the boards at the Troubadour The-
atre, and the Players again filled the house for a capacity
run of three nights. There can be little doubt but that this
sensational tale
of the “doings of
rum” as sold by
the Sickle and
Sheaf thrilled
lexington mor-

alists and _ terri-
fied Rockbridge

tipplers in the
days when our
grandfathers
used to “hitch up
the old bay” and
drive their fami-
lies down the lit-
tle narrow lanes
to the
Street
House

Henry
Opera
for an
evening of enter-
tainment
anteed to satisfy

guar-

the most fastidi- .
ag
ous and possibly
to bring added
signatures to the
cold water pledge, But gone was that audience, and, like-
departed was the spirit of that audience; for, although a
few youths approached the theatre with the idea that the
producers intended something of a moral purge, most of
them came with the conviction that, tragic as was the case
of Father Morgan, who was troubled with green snakes
while he watched little Mary gaze into the faces of
celestial beings, no one was trying to persuade them from
the tap-room at the Corner Store. But this was the right
spirit for fun, and the audience acted with the players as
they burlesqued the old melodrama, singing lachrymal
tunes with the barroom quartet, and helping little Mary
to die with their heaves and sobs.

 

Part of the 1942 Glee Club with Fred Waring and Mayor La Guardia in front of
the City Hall in New York.

 

Ten Nights in a Barroom was directed by Jack Lanieh
of Baltimore, a talented young man who showed his ver
satility by filling in the role of the villain of the play
when the draft law made a last minute shift in the cast
necessary. Lanich was assisted by Seymour Smith, Dic

rector of Relig-

a

ious Activities,
and by several
distinguished
members of the
Army School for
Special Service,
whose nostalgia
for the odor of
grease paint drew
them to the thea-
The
cast consisted of

tre door.

Taylor,
\lceCorm-

J ohn
Jack

ick, Jack Horn-
ickel, Jack Lan-
ich, Jack Wood,

sob Harter,
Dick Bartle-
baugh, Virginia

l_eila
Nance Moffatt,
Helen Smith,and
Llelen Anderson,
A quartet from
the glee club (Waller Dudley, Joe Mingioli, Bill Wilcox,
and Bill

Deaver,

sen) gave a musical background which added
much to the color of the play.

General Pershing is reported to have stated during
World War Number I that he preferred a thousand
soldiers occasionally entertained to ten thousand soldiers
without entertainment. The army has placed great em-
phasis on the value of amusement in the present struggle;
and the Army School for Special Service, now located on
the Washington and Lee campus, has strengthened our
own faith in the importance of music and dramatics in
bolstering morale in times of crises. To the army, these
activities constitute a particularly vital force when they

[4+]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—

are employed in processes of occupational therapy. In our
WOTrk al

Washington and Lee, we are following

re sent

he exam)! of the army as well as that of some of the
Ber colleges of the country in our effort to teach stu-
Ee to train others and to direct such activities among
the aril cl forces should they be given the opportunity

lo so; but at the same time we are proceeding not with
tO § , 7

the idea of amusing others so much as with that of keep-
me our

i

own student body and those of us who participate

<cupied and free from depression. At present the play-
(AL «

ers are 10 rehearsal for Arsenic and Old Lace, Joseph
Kesselring $ popular “tale of wholesale murders by ami-

able old

not disheartened by the draft, is in preparation for several

ladies’; and the Glee Club, much depleted but

concerts in the spring. An intramural scheme for college

activities, directed primarly toward entertaining the mem-
bers of the student body, must loom vividly 1n the plans
of all directors of college organizations, and it does con-
stitute one of the basic principles of our dream for musical
and dramatic organizations after the war. And in the
midst of the most disheartening year since the last war

in a year when the world of fancy must give way to a
world of reality, and the romantic visions of actors tend
to fade—the Washington and Lee ‘Troubadours are still
dreaming, and many are marching off to war with plans
already made as to what they wish to do on the campus
after their return. lor these boys and for those lads who
will come with them, [| am hoping that the ‘Troubadour
Theatre will serve as a personal workshop as well as a
playhouse, and that it will provide an outlet or a construc-
tive diversion for every boy who desires to participate in

musical and dramatic activities even though he may have

only a minimum of talent. If a boy desires to sing, he
must find an opportunity here to sing; or 1f he desires to
act, he must be given his chance to act; if he can write a
song, we shall try to sing it; if he can write a play, we
shall try to give him an opportunity to see it played. There
will be many activities connected with the theatre which
will give him diversion as well as a chance to exercise his
talent. One need look no further than the Carolina Play-
makers to see the success of the creative arts idea.

The creative impulse among students should be satis-
fied, and in so doing we may discover real talent in our
midst. But we hope to go still further in training the stu-
dent to perfect himself to the best of his ability in the
art wnich he has chosen as an outlet. ‘To do so we must
have a system which will encourage organization and
discipline as well as an unwillingness to do things in a
slip-shod way. During the past few years the Glee Club
has obtained a rather enviable record as far as collegiate
choral groups are concerned. They have sung in many
well-known girl's schools, both in the North and the
at the National Cathedral in Wash-

ington; they have appeared on prominent theatrical stages

south ; they have sung
both in Washingion and New York, and they have broad-
cast over the leading net-works of the nation; and last
year they appeared for the fourth time as the guests of
I‘red Waring and the Chesterfield Hour, this time on the
stage at Carnegie Hall, having been chosen by a group of
well known critics as one of the eight best clubs in the
country. They received wide publicity ; telegrams and let-
ters of commendation came from all sections of the United
States, and the last such letter came from the American

Imbassy in London. With only very rare exceptions have

 

Helen Smith, Dick Bartlebaugh, and Leila Nance Moffatt in the death scene of “Ten Nights in a Barroom.”

Lo |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

these boys been students who have had any previous voice
training. They have been normal, average boys whose
only requirements on entering the club were that they be
able to carry a tune, and that they have a desire for sing-
ing sufficient to make them spend several hours of each
week drilling toward perfection in minute details. They
were willing to accept organization and a pleasant form
of discipline, and the result was a rich experience.

The importance of music and dramatics in American
life, and especially in American colleges is growing. I felt
this fact keenly last year in that gathering of choral or-
ganizations at Carnegie Hall; and I am being advised
continually of this fact by many officers in the School for
Special Service who have gained prominence in music or
on the stage. So I find myself—inspired I suppose by
those lads who have gone off to war with a post-war plan
formulating in their minds—dreaming dreams of what we
can do at Washington and Lee after they return. I shall
expect to see the Glee Club appearing again on metro-
politan stages and broadcasting over national hook-ups ;
[ shall expect to see the band parading again in some of
the larger stadiums of the country; and I shall expect to
find the Players not only giving a series of good plays at
home, but gaining some prominence abroad, and possibly
even starting a summer theatre in this valley which in
normal times attracts so many tourists. But what I should
like to find is more opportunity or provision for making
the best work in these activities possible. We have at our
disposal a rather excellent little theatre building which 1s
adequately equipped for our work. We have several valu-
able courses which deal with the history, the theory, the
criticism, and the appreciation of music and the drama.

—e
We need courses in diction, in play-writing, in stagecrafg,
possibly in broadcasting technique, and in the more scien.
tific phases of music and the stage. But what we need
most is a closer correlation between the musical and
dramatic organizations and other, at present more
valued, liberal arts, many of which find their matrix jg
music and the drama. We need more consideration for
these activities as aris, and a feeling that they are arfg
rather than actiz ities. lor instance, | should like to see
the student in dramatic theory or dramatic criticism ene
couraged to turn to the actual theatre for some of hig
basic training ;

urged to obtain some of his knowledge of rhythm, tone

| should like to see the student of poeties

color, and those other elements so necessary for the une
derstanding of lyric poetry through actual participation
in music. One of the best ways for assuring this encours
agement would be by providing academic credit for the
work accomplished. I therefore very strongly desire that
the musical and dramatic organizations might attain such
a standard of excellence that they could justify consideras
tion in the University curriculum equal to that of any
other subject which is felt to be of value in a student's ine
tellectual development. These organizations, through the
proper cultivation, could be made to do more than merely
add to a boy’s pleasure during his academic career—they
could make a rich and vital contribution to his life.

)

Epwin B. Suvuctz, 1916, chief of personnel of Tens
nessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee, has been

National War

will serve as a

for several
Southern

loaned to the Labor Board

months. He member of the

Regional WLB in Atlanta, Georgia.

 

The male members of the cast of “Ten Nights in a Barroom,” posed for a curtain call.

[6]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

Army Reserves Called to Active Duty

sy ALLEN W. MocER
Faculty Army Adviser

earLy 200 Washington and Lee students were called

to active duty in the United States Army during the
month of February. Their departure left the student en-
rollment at approximately forty per cent of its normal
‘time number. It marked almost the last chapter in
a program under which the students had been permitted
to enlist in the Army and remain in college on a deferred

| yeace

status.
In May of last year the War Department announced
“4 program of pre-induction training for colleges in
which students of good standing might enlist in the Army
Air Corps as aviation cadets and in the Enlisted Reserve
Corps, unassigned. Such students were to remain 1m col-
lege as long as they did good work or until the Secretary
of War determined that the national emergency demanded
that they be called. These enlistees were to be considered
as a pool from which future officers would normally
come. Each one had to pass the physical examination re-
quired of men for officers candidate school. The War
Department urged students to take advantage of this de-
ferred plan, saying that “these men may feel assured that
they are doing the job their country wants them to do
and are performing their full duty in the war effort.”
Immediately after the announcement a recruiting
board representing the Air Corps visited the campus, and
Washington and Lee boys began to enlist. By December
15, when the period of enlistment was closed, 58 had en-
listed as aviation cadets, most of them for flight duty.
In July plans were completed by the government for
students to begin enlisting in the Army Enlisted Reserve
Corps, unassigned. Many students joined during the
summer and others in the fall at various recruiting sta-
tions. In November, when a mobile recruiting station
visited the campus, 73 were enlisted. By December l5,a
total of 176 Washington and Lee students had joined
what was generally known as the E.R.C. Included were
50 freshmen, 55 sophomore, 36 juniors, and 35 seniors.
Throughout the fall, students were in a state of un-
settled expectancy due to the fact that the government
Was constantly changing details or announcing unexpect-
ed departures from the plan as originally announced. In
September, before the plan was well under way, Secre-
tary Stimson announced that it would be necessary to call
most of the E.R.C. enlistees to active duty at the end of
the term then beginning. This was a surprise to all col-

leges because the details of the plan had indicated that
students who enlisted would probably be left in school for
at least one academic year. After the Secretary's an-
nouncement the idea of deferment was minimized, but
students continued to feel that they would have an ad-
vantage by joining this college army group. Finally it
was announced that no more enlistments would be per-
mitted after December 15. Just before the Christmas holi-
days definite instructions arrived that all enlistees, except
some special engineering and pre-medical students, would
be called to active duty shortly after the semester closed
in January. However, the boys were urged by the War
Manpower Commission to remain in school until they
were actually called. So students continued to live from
announcement to announcement, not knowing what plans
to make, if any.

At the close of the semester some of the I¥.R.C. en-
listees dropped out of college. A few transferred to
schools nearer their homes. The vast majority, knowing
that the government had modified its plans before and
also that they had been told to stay, matriculated for the
second semester.

On February 6, orders arrived for the boys to report
for active duty on February 18. About two-thirds of the
men were to report to the reception center at New Cum-
berland, Pennsylvania, and about one third to Camp Lee,
Virginia.

President Gaines called all the enlistees together in
Washington Chapel, where he made a most appropriate
address to an excited crowd of boys. He explained the
government program by which many of them would be
returned to school after their basic trtaining in order
that they might take specialized courses designed to equip
them for technical work in the army.

“During your service in the army you will be con-
sidered continuing students of Washington and Lee,” Dr.
Gaines said. “By all means plan to return and complete
your college education. Plans are being worked out by
which, on your return, you will be given college credit for
work and experience received while in the service.”

The boys then packed and left for home. The govern-
ment permitted them to go directly to camp from their
homes or to return to Washington and Lee and leave in
a group.

On the morning of the eighteenth of February, 44

[7]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

boys left in a special bus for New Cumberland, and 37
left by bus for Camp Lee. Classes were suspended. The
whole faculty and student body, as well as many town
people, were at the bus station to see the boys off. It was
an occasion that will not soon be forgotten. Many left
behind were eager to go. Those leaving were a serious
group, but they lustily sang the “Washington and Lee
Swing.” It was the largest if not the only group of stu-
dents that ever left Washington and Lee together to re-
port for duty in the armed forces of their country.

Late in January the Headquarters of the Army Air
Forces announced that boys who had enlisted for flight
duty under the deferred plan would be called very soon.
During February most of these boys received their in-
dividual orders. Most of them went to the Air Force
Training Center at Miami, Florida. The few who remain
will be called to active duty by April 1.

tighteen E.R.C. enlistees received their degrees
from Washington and Lee in January and were called to
active duty two weeks after they graduated. Those who
had dropped out of college or had transferred have also
been called. Candidates for degrees in May, 1943, who are
called to active duty during their last semester will receive
their degrees provided their work is not in arrears when
called.

Ten E.R.C. men remain at Washington and Lee,
four as pre-medical students and six as special engineer-
ing students. These men, with all other pre-medical and
engineering students, are deferred until the end of this
semester. Boys who enlisted for technical work as avia-
tion cadets in the ground crew of the Air Corps have
been assigned to training classes that begin at different
times. Most of them are still in school.

When the army plan was announced last May the
writer of this article was asked by President Gaines to
serve as faculty adviser to students who might wish to
join. Hundreds of students have been interviewed, most
of them many times. It has been a fascinating and at
times a bewildering experience; bewildering because de-
tails were changed so many times by the War Depart-
ment that it was almost impossible to give the students
intelligent advice. The boys have been fine, however, and
they will never be forgotten.

Of the students still at Washington and Lee, about
200 have enlisted in the Navy and Marines under a de-
ferred plan. The Marines and the Navy men are defer-
red until July 1, 1943.

Professor Lewis K. Johnson and Professor Earl K.

’axton are faculty advisers for the Navy and Marines,
respectively.

 

Have you replied to your Class Agent's letter?

Recent Gifts to the Universi

lORTY-ONE THOUSAND, FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS haye
been received in gifts to Washington and Lee University
within recent months. |

An anonymous contributor gave $25,000, to be used
without restrictions.

Three gifts of $5,000 each are acknowledged. These
are to be used “in the interest of journalism.”

One donation of $1,000 is to be used to replace trees
on the University campus.

Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Cohen, of Cincinnati, Ohio, have
contributed $500 toward a scholarship.

There has come to the University a donation by the
C. and O. R. R. Co., from White Sulphur Springs, of ¢
large portrait of General Robert E. Lee. From the same
source are 27 Beyer prints, a block-front mahogany desk,
a grandfather clock, and 14 large lamps. |

x * x

WASHINGTON AND LEE has received as a gift the
personal Bible of Robert Alexander, who in 1749 found-
ed a small classical school, Augusta Academy, the gern
from which the present University grew. |

The Bible came as a gift from Mr. Charles H. Rever-
comb, of Covington, Virginia, a descendant of Robert
Alexander in whose custody the volume has been for a
number of years. It was brought for formal presentation
by Mr. Roscoe B. Stephenson, LL.B., 08, also of Coving-
ton and another descendant of Robert Alexander.

Dr. Gaines expressed pleasure at receiving this his-
toric item, particularly in view of the fact that the Uni-
versity is just beginning to lay its plans for the bi-
centennial in 1949, which will center to a large extent in
the person and in the work of Robert Alexander.

 

Dr. St. Clair Named Trustee

Dr. Huston St. Crarr, A.B., 1922, was elected @
member of the University Board of Trustees, at its meet-
ing held in Washington, D. C., on May 5. Dr. St. Clair
is president of the Jewel Ridge Coal Corporation, presi-
dent of the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce, and
active in industrial, religious and educational work. His
home is in Tazewell, Virginia. Dr. St. Clair’s father, Mr.
George Walker St. Clair, LL.B., 1890, was a member of
the University Board of Trustees in 1901, serving as Ree-
tor of the Board from 1927 until his death in 1939,

 

l.Arrp Y. THompson, 1921, is working with Produc-
tion Engineer Control Materials Plan in Takoma, Wash-
ington. His address is 2219 N. Proctor Street, Takoma.

[8 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of March 1, 1943

Nore: This list of 364 alumni in service comprises
the fourth published addition to the list of Washington
and lee men in service, published in the May, 1942,
Magazine. Washington and lee now has 1671 men listed
in the armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or other address from which mail will be for-
warded, special activities, type of service or training, ete.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possible
with our alumni in this time of stress, and any informa-
tion concerning alumni in service will be greatly appreci-
ated by this office.

In the listing below,
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
A, Army of the United States; AAI, Army
N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air

Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
An asterisk (*) following the

certain symbols have been used

as follows:
Air Force:
Corps; MC,
American Field Service.

above symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

A bDOtt? RerCH ae ER OCTES, G0. sii chssanpschceessosnnuias dnuscnsdpinilipehscaiecebatonehel A
Adams, Joseph Porter, 4G .csssiiccsccescccssesscesscsccosoncccesssetsbooescevscncseve A
Adams, “Vere COrmeles; ’ 4S. csseswssessanhsocisssccsubecancstinrgquutonseatiin MC
Alexander, James Beauchamp, 746.............cccssssscssssccssecsssssseeeeoed A
Alford. “Gepire Gort, Se iin siti issccsenbbonsbivaspecasatttaeceuectereussete AAF
Allen, Chydé: Niaxont, 720:cii.ccssiccccasvhsuansteyssesceconpavsvevnsvesonsaucegeiheboned N*
Aller, “Mime FP rar was Za iiba van ixsbe cook canecansddopcappcacdtninuechavestoanaealebastieen N*
Almon;Frankk  Gataldtiig, "94. sic. sis.csesstvadenssvtssensbdusdanvhcscvesoctabugnoosis A
Atlee; ‘William’ Mianety SA Z2ssecsccciiccsas iit tndintctestidayeosioupacesbisscetvvanes \N
Bagley, Joe: Fig mins, “8S scciceccccieccascssscssnsdocebesosetedddcccnssvvseqesabued AAF
Bailey, Julian Heyward, ’32.............c.cccccsscsccssesesescesestacessnseecsesenes N
Bal docke;: We Hae RIE ooo vecgivsacbeckanadsscthincantapethosnonsescantvgriboeasen \
Bargery FertistiGee sy Mee OTL TE Sy, Eolosnisinehisinn ah dnanansteis socsds satrbeniaeadenga A
Barritt, Carlyle: Westbrook, °43.......:cc..csccsssseccccccssescoccsssscccesesseced A
Beashey, “Cube, 2555): Fj FO. intsasvancottinacedaict cece cnnstavcignacbebetaghosuarens A
B ea verry Wy eG oy MONON so Wainsssity abcchicseanee ct booeaptoscibsagepsstssnaapeubetybd A
Bentley, ‘Robert Olver; <"ZOiis:jcssecasasusersvoesccsscsevoesesnesetonbotiseussengened A
Benton: Fessee Witla, Fi e5> FS ys nse icecnisdsocessctnacssodeecascencounipeseanened A
Berry, Robert: Norris, “46 ..sccscscccicccccseccnsesbssccscccsecssosccsceescsvevecsevsesees A
B ertitit/ Rebere Fetes, OD ii Rovscsanakeievi vad bcaduiacspadinpssatopcescpeosied AAF
Bien: Wee Ear BRIG: FH GO. caceathy oo coeptvissveledoaseascds teidluesdasdimand \
Birnie, JOSEPM TGRFIC, ’29sc..ccresscccesossoodcabscecund pvncepscececyuiscbocedpsccutens N*
Blackford, Henry Jackson, Jrf., °45..........cccscescssssssssesccsresescoseed AAF
Blalock; Jarmes: ATlatns 2 S/S pisiicen csp opisccescs eos. sacsesnsvadsvotoucssovesncensteed A
Bookimnyer,; "Ralph BUgh, -’45....<cc.ssspdeseocecossooseetgevesaonisesvesoasspneceseove A
J OWEIAE, W¥ TLLiMaE “DOO Te TIES 9s seie sasccsiccseransessosdsctnessancostens A

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

SRST. « ACCIOENEE Rs: PINRO ON os Ri eacdadidaknyo<oscqnceoastonvvsnentasonaantad A
Sramerd, -RObSrt: Wi Wei sic Miia dehdedea herds csdeisccsuddacdeahacben ewes A
EPI Htht ET AEE er URI O e a SN yess sdnice cubecariekes nccons odscesananeetponce N*
RPerietaall FL OnEYy, Sam Vir SE. . ns Jon va peacobusil vos cocnceccsencepoabetaed A
SEOGELICK, TORT LORRI, Piig detieistecs)cdescsaitesscbdmibasscscuasoctvcvabvebons N
Brooke, Howarth PGaniag: 76 cii\ccis sj cakecnscctpcttibtesaccdecccoeseied AFS
Brooks; GC hames Tine 4G cteise haias chic nation kins dete \
Brown; Benjamin Merton jy Fr. 86.6.5. ccce sei eocccopasusatietvecianccthasnan A
BEV RN, -RCCS VV OE Oa atoeices ting vereccvsintate sonVeheeene tpecsipestbae A
Bryan, William Burris, 44 Ssbavah yp batiphercoes bet tenighinhedtsiinindilinccoptheniaioate A
RP yOut, “THOME TRACT, oh bscekassNai icsdedvcdstedtavecdbcctccbsssecariiede A
Be kcs OO wa SG Some. 9 ai vsis sac Secstc conduc ince WousSonaiend nrabets AAF
Cee ee eee eee ee et banca a ene N*
SUITES VY SIME OTTO WO. seven covhstnnsscncevcndesdonibsvdishecvsosetsommecdh A*
Busby, FE MORIGE POM OLBOUS FT a." dessvccbidenccenyviettesotenmbeteeaneumedtdems N*
SREMCUCHEL, “PINTO COU IRE TBO su, Ah. npavens insusipacenabinmneoncdetomhseeabieookonts N*
SVEUCR, VV Tete TRUPEUREIG: AIDS... cdasvasuhmanstes divoths sunrsantoetaccdbeneee A
Camas; Jasnien RROtmeaas 0 cise ny: csinnecdvissdeceebisbibtesccbessiancts.sectews NAC
Caspiell: Tamer Taye den ss cckc2ch0as sa he ounates cceve se shes cchstsnceseules A
Camipiehl> “DOs he ar CECE, 2S sccssccicsecckcedlgeeuntscn<conssabesecdsoveneckanes A
Car tacih:GOne Om Fae etmeely. AS. cov icnctivy asc ccbaliinteintot6p cacthkemdicterds AAF*
Carmichael, tame 1 Wires,’ 458. cocccsssccneevecessoce cddeblecescoscccascosaeh A
CST SECIS Ba. i. caclsidetallonke Seth btdescocvnde conceals os nto A
CarsOll,”: Vy MAI EONUOMIOTY ; RON ecckds opcccchececviceccda debd saschocembouea A
Carver, Asnpy: Remertson: 44 skh ces civctececisetnccnbaoccl A
Case. “FHomiie Spee sy 46. ;..sccavcabih dcosdeltess ine ceceskubclousaactscambulen. A
Chatineitaass Robie ey Oe, Asche ta sn Ne inecescorecestnsbadaocdasoaducan A
CCaREREE, Feel BE CRIT, 13. Oa zccaeldcs resco vals ochetibctossasuwunen aati A
Cherie: cree: WV ait, cA i sioch cotta ceeiseasaaul : A
CREA, APR Viele MD Gea Lavkis ink cedpndaphcimoinalotcci pictus debateieaptocss ce oaleigencien AAF
Clarice George Fivomas | Tei: "Zot aise ok hee ees N*
CISERBOM, BGn AIO” TOMO, "O05 Soi5.dcackcccnccdobuctoeetons obese taccathess A
Cluverius, William Hale, ’25...............00. , N*
Cotten: -Mateue (Fi Garis: ais, <cchasvtisscchce dd ccbicacheless:csoctshecuw A*
Coes CA UTOR SHCUMNEE, EE 5 IOs ln cinhcov Gctcectnabdeiesssechdtsrocdtbcceo kine A*
CPT RUIN: RGM PR itncla bectal pel concchibabdad tas dcacasne ics cbecuu tamed A
ee rn * TS ae a Sick seucconcacienbey A
CPt EGG. | RAR A hdres dks oc casks wcpevcaneceac Todos onvecdotertsceseeed A
OES AMEE Te ST OTND RRS SP nr he eS. N*
RUC EIINN,. SOE, WUOGMRGRG BLS. SUR... .T scccadcusasbise bic cxcsismebiannc: N*
Or Bg ame oa iw CRORE RIS ee RO a SRR A
COMTI, UIST DR DUTIO ES SEDI “BO ccinaivincdibevcddicasdpedericcacesadiaas A
SDUIRIIE = VV STEER DCRLRN PRON, 5 ohg sic 3iics chduoakoumc tet icdocsace Wbaconvececs teabes N*
DRS AY TREMIIE: WV WARRING a Oc a ve eoen ccatlinackcedadknds Geass cutaeskecke ook AAF
ERY ISs SP ATIES APT TERE a BE 2 Mah svcanescaadvbevescpachth cothcccede viveosucccdeeataal A
LPGVLG;. FONEEED: eR OERIERS > GUM cishcceeeibcsininncsssAcaeavsstbienonnteis ofctsackedettreale A*
DeBiase, Soornemus: Vimcent, "26 vac sidvaishincoss devine. csc ba A*
EPOTISE, Rist 1 BPO POT; hice ticaisets id daccadtiess ikiec ete N
EPalbs: POUT < EERO HERETO SOP cise fio ccaptonstolantecule sacs cicsn,, Ciena! A
Paljoreto, ‘Franke: Jotemit: AAs Kock. aiicwic lilies caida A
DObDe; Pant Been need, A iy siete itsss veiasceatyscickdusadomneyihdetteiaiees A*
Dosgan, Baward Atthur, A458 chica. cbevaseition sschaie. A
RACES ADs LOE VP TD; | Pasa vccecduscnteastesinvestsicedeatnachaatemeietcd eeiveatikas ted A
Doweey, Landon Asnton): DE A554 caves eek tin saccchutth cossiins cs A
Dotsrite, Walter. reqokty, “AZ <u. eae ae AAF
DOYLE, Wea ERGY AS orcseisscccchpvearintciaksd abel stitii scene AAF
Dreke John Tienery Wy Gres "SF sss. con eins nbathtcctealocesneccctek., CG
Dreyer, Jack Jay, 8G oo suacnt ss a teeta si. meas oF AAF
PPE OY CF; TACGD UMN, "44 ci cicedtemdvelassoteschteassocttevadessoeccactes’ AAF
Duncan: Clade devard,: Ui Fcdieshkcctietincchticctieccetthdbeccccsscded AAF*

[9 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

TROBE |: SU PMSNE PASIUIBG,, cM iinek cis 6s cd iesk's dans cadackdesdghnnicdboacesco> dicate N*
ROLES, DRE ee LION RIES © ao ivsnsspietnnnaseethotdontnseiscisvodbecbcovsccol NAC
EGARICY, AAWUED FRBTCOIDE Tio, “AS ecdccccddcedeuchecnssocnpsdberastaciscsscectgaed \
eTeth, REMAN OE SR EE LOTO Gs TOP << cchinocecocn evan chodesceectuitiltensdacebaseseseobbed A
PIC Re ECU WALGN>. B8 ches scckavessecicndilentenbalbatbsthonchiceabcoboosebe N
SEERA, Rc MRO ROS 2, LISTS 0 «vince oGcosevcacdespadbesboelcusddetascococecdectoutune’ A
Rae} Cote ee ai Act) | os AS. .0kc bapuisdercaeptadehibusthevesesocescveschévastes N
ER. Ra § CIEE OFM e ila vce osnodsneuh nsntieaaa md dodo cain dbiche~ceceintasba \AF
PESOS. Kee PLATVAG Beg: WO iis sists tide Baska Wein ckndoeqecansocastptcl N*
Bretrerctr,’ Feet Maree, Oe ook ccs casa ds dacce taht istopaspanncesocecsdcassapeoal A
Py es 5k SEO IIs Nias. Lsgdaidieuabidlentctamiigaivaddvsteceoe<soonben MC*
RATA CORI COS (LOMO AR As, | ear OM bs cas vasapasionial \
Baas, Sema Ler: Nemes ite i056, A lsccucvsaspocensscancboonne’ A
PRG CIN AS IN OIE, 1h Ei Oc coedalint pct cetvts icknoas shed Sokasinncietoinsie sonciasened A
Bra oe CI Os Fac talce a ci sthessoscopitseenliaedundoose N*
FONG, RV RE CRM TSA liso kn cdochccpnandcahdadesagscdoasdscosnctonvecoocecegl A
ty TIA me: Me Lic coes: cadens psa padatbiceessbcanaivs sbevesesegnilessoceccoued \
ee, SE RNAV RB ha seck cid Ac Loadecivccusaiinskakacs{venscicscaucbintenssbeade A
Cae ee ee eee eee a a cckcmbbibbavecocsnedbec’ A
CU CRR Nr ENON SE SRRIRIR ONIN DOD. 6 15d agin sndpcosenbacdtncsadedessavodenesSiscbegorseoess N
ee I ae ar <add od 5 fore ded uaabnusiedinn donnpahambemane A
Gassman, Loyal Paul, saris, hvac bd etek naassebale eiguiecilbseonineed \
SalI 200 00-1 RMI STAD 0 so cin a iene edevcts edooa nev ourensucllveigdaues A
NEL Oar ARERR ETS» SMMERTIMEDOED. "OD... .ccaxndcoscsoceconnadueiisen cabbeapassesctobeonenend A
SCRE ACUUPATEL  MEMMMIONL, OS), csi sscnkscavcsrtepsaarbacniedscedodesttecberdectbabes A
Gilliam, Frank Johnson, Se sr vartdaserddaieaghaciaabed keer yak iets ohne A*
CSIR OUP EG, FRMMIME° 228 vii cc Seiasctsnnatchddwdosdolodsine odéactubbucsdtasuvecier N*
eRe LOMEaY TERME Ms cscckeinsephdtigeanthtapehs ovevcediiaabusNeeseubaranibs A
Coe) GUNS Merry BT. 8G. 5. ccnseppcchciipWiocun cReeancdkebaarttceddebed A
CEC HE SEROTONIN, AO cicada eidsccssnsneneocostsdpaabeesopdincetbeant Sotvedpesdl A
(ote ausireme Fare miel. fey. 40, ..c sesiccocsacasechivecccdvedsibanatcbisclonnnd A
CUTE MROEDOTE NECEIWIMEIIOE, | SDacckscccevetscecdaispboscuveccocdbadessaesecrkes A
RETTIG TS COUGTE a a cikin cts dads dpdieptoesecepeecaptocabootsooeaed \
PS NS. FOND 5” 4 Dacia ca GM sites tkkacv'sscovlastaadubocnbvclaaviasoiaceockis od A
FAS eae CE OV AL] 5 AED. bts he ek saMBIs s Gaerne sssuviageknnbunecoberesteupidiecsiemined A
ERS, SES. TLATHOLOM NT i iy inastaiece> <- ganicteeshathalcactesnvsedinedeed A
Ley MUMRNPEDD ED, BROW ig odicae socdddepaph dirasdopsblins cd Aeced bhokacittdescp abies N
Paamerereee, BiChard ‘Capra, 45..5.5..505625 covatviee be aarebtadenesccnabvonccens A
EAE, L,OFeNZA FONT, JL, BO. edeiscicskdinesiipinsedttsmastaawincel A
renee. P) Vere Er rae Oe ec I ee ee N*
RESIN: TROUT. GD. chicks civ cpecchttnscsesegucbtetecaibabdeantauancipadhchaseconbenela A*
DAMME | OLE TEPEGUED, | 18 255 Feaadh icvc ices abedobavthatsscedccdvansdoedsetel AAF
SRO UAE «WE OMTRIEEMIER, G0BD.5 scons cucdsacsevbpanpiiiecccccnh eeenaiiven ch otnmeimnal A
Ee ereree tees ITS: VV AMIE FAG... cos, soscckvchcecotetccottepasoscsanuicamabinaed A
Be APR Tee OTIC © LIU BD cicisis ovcdsccysacedyesnnanpubepsibes doceosssothbhitinntbaa A
Os CROAT AMICON, Gian ca s aan sanded escnnccddagibadseBuesshrichenpsn thea ioheued A
ee RO TS Ria NG TPT SE eR OPE) mT A
BE VCGCrRPIGG, EE UIUOTE SE Lin ri aihavindhessscgidoscceshddiAncddceds \cacderdeded AAF*
RTO. VE OCR OEISG,- CORETUIOIE. 24 05 5. icnsncpascectbcevacensdaannesedbucdvcane MC*
PG, ARSRTAEUE BUONO 20as hs i-- sh ccnahcludcdicocsahaceessstchuoustaicientioase A
Ras L OTTIDS: TURN BEY FE sy FU din cts ickde cascode enanpdecctdtnrsochsicooseosccd A
PN ROR E NRO ong dens s paninks decks sks ad oda uebabIace~ Sbochdkeine N*
EI, SCORED)” SPLINE TIMES TOW 22 vac cs ean cledpcenephsosdtndlinniountavcodsabsodsese N*
ELONGTIKSON, E.G with Mason, 44 ..s.cccccicssicnscsccccctecssscdcbdscnesdense AAF
WE SAC AMOUR. VY MUL 7 Oh, :. si cdunadssuundodarsdccinocondien didedchevuentd A*
Herndon, Charles Allen, °46................ A
SR si RCE TCU CORLCETIDGEL, | WO oso sisés cosncoscdbdnbodeboncissicodidersesdedacbessed A
eee. Ween CASES. SC 2.1 552, 0s cana ehocenslanatbdaes phecacssahabe N
SEMIS L MMR AEE NE. EG odie scsi cbencscnc op MbiccepnnclalMdssanessnscpeobokd A
EL aes PRIN, Basic chv hatin connienrsstass isdvicldghesabesvecseciad A
TR ECMNTE 6 AEE SOOUMREND, (i ionsccadecds scvinscecedeoll suite povunteadaiikeninabnes A
eenae <LI E  MU “BO ID hak cn casecadssubéahchophoenesid nie Aiptinsesed A
TURNER RPGMtUEE MRS SDs Bsc cai 5s s0ssovsh omvecsoabisbavencanaaildtvenies A*
DENGCTL, 0 ARETE CURE. BEL gs SOc anccanbchcepcivbhstdaopebapeiarnitapnnos NAC
AR: £° LUMI Ta COICSIMED 5. PP Rak Ktiadsoicecdh dec vendassovdeqancach dukebotcensdecsooliilh A
UCIT MYO T, PUNE. ccs hs ica psegksncdbtad pescadbantediceagpildacaguepede ct A
SY WY LLLSNTIES ALOR MANNOD FFs cahacnspsansieheceseoyssactdntscdlidloeteldehassoied A
Jenson; Wlarence Freeman, 32, We ssisiscessecctscsoedecentcnsetessersoses A

  
  

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Johtison, Franklin Poore, :'29...ccc..ciccscovescsscccevscsescsvtcoussceeacede .
Johnson, Robert Ogden, "46.55. iccc.sc.cccsiiscccocdsonscésosnedoscanscestain A
Jonunson; Wheatley -Marahall, "42.0. scc.2..cs.cccccccccnsscocccsetcoveslt AAF
SUBIR SINE, <IV GATIGLSTS 5. | D@iscvnsdaccncdcssspdgasonsivevéssualcanstbocedacte soul aaa .
Jolliffe, Walker a PU ds ddan dadictedei casts aevenpidebedoalictexiensRaaee MC
Jones, Rudolph, °22...............
J LOE | PROBLY 42. icin icesccchessccidcscinpascdadeabes nccshean MC
JOPGRM, JOHN Pearson, °F riiieccccccveccscocovvcscsescssssecscoesuonsoosesssbcea
JORSI  eeMEe ANON 44 oi sa dis oo scccsenacsesscccansedacccoccstvocecseodsh scene
Junkin; Willem MeCleery, 736.5.0..ciciccs.cebectesciccooncscssectesccesesann
TOAD RORIEIOR FRODELE, See. 0005cnisssassvctasencchecciinccdacnscusesscouelea
OD RINE, IO a icles eset niias sce cSincessiecsvcnsbcocaceabectabicabcqtvedeo ena A*
BRD ihn éck ac cbacchscivencece cséseveses<ckeens Tes .A*
Cities PON es Sete oakagsescedens- i es dbsecbedesseveesepseienen A
OTR nn CI es, oc. cia cc ccoasunlidudeccopicdetaceacnasa A
ei REO ROE ia bigicdsececpvcsecscptinscvesdessabéveccasicccsegss ian A
FR erry Bee al oo ik) aad schasscossussceeccnssduaccsivescath vasossvinccnanas3@uina A
Rim Distigs, GRU EARC VON s © AS eiicicsssiiciccscsiscecokcnecessvsksosessveicousl N*
Kincheloe, James Gordon, °46..5....05..005000ci.cecesecesscsecosessooecoonscn A.
TSR.) OLIN me CATON BEL, 5 Ds evan idcna sh cceedasncin inecdecdehcos uc cdalscoutiecdl NAC
Kinney, Harrison. Burtcn, "445 oici.cicccesccacccccsccccnsoscodsccsbajacconm A
LMR, | TOTNES OTR, ee theca cokes okt Rirevicds co.addpechpncehteiwubas co eee A*
RSASTRIVGET, PA MNMUIE “CPig seid scdcac cpebivconades vucceehs\dodecradcicmobenbaues isecesp th aun A
DC aster, “VV RAPer SEMMOS. 8Ga. Sesscocciccccecccasiticcdnczpoe inks celtic, A
Landrigan, Frederick Robert, .°46..........ccccccccsscccccssossoccccocdcsencl A
RIG: SMNE SHORT, ie cncnvpceXere cso tnieonesacosbch kcbessccs A
Panich;: Lloyd Jackson, .Jt., “44 casei. ae A
Lawler, Michael Hemdrix; °42..:5..560s.cbceccssossteicdscascdcstsscvcdcecsaaaa A’
L OLD PERV ERIOTIG EEE, Dace oecovbecnss sata tbctsbnccsntebincsacsosdeteceitichocla N*
Dewi, CRATIES Kverett: Fis, 7a ric ccicrteccccsccdoccdarcvescacescecasssena A
FEE 7 OU RP UNE 9 ee a en Fi oe AAF
Locketis samuel FO par ty 32." 4G 5. ccicccchisiisacccdaccaabecaletocsdivleccaeae A
Luft, Wrelard David, ."3Z...5..3:c6.;... A
RCA REY FOL OVREE, SOROS OG. os sicsinctassessinttesonsdscchasateaaccicaksesnnd NAC
McCauley, Porter Thompson H., °45.......... ee A™
Pa ent - Carer WU Ce. 0 PAG a ee cc casucoleodcadecscolctasl A
Beitr e ASOOPNE SOME, 98...  scdctcsdclusesébataideserecocadeal A\AF
BE GAIOUETD, SHPOTIIOT SEL OUEY, G55. ccdece<cccescsessdcdsrcoisceducscesasceced AAF
APNE PRE UIE, BD iiisie50: cdodeseciesdeasioctichoctocecdcocs NAC
McDonald, Angus Allen, °37 sakes seek na scons don hoch A
McGehee, Wiley: Aloysius, Jr., °46.:......<cccccsescscsscccccctsccccsecossoocclll A
McRae, Floyd Wilcox, Jr., ’46....... A
BR RCRA, IRONS CCCIPIDEND,. “Masiccacteh copes vanes vevdiechcciceecccteReanéedssi aa A
Magee, Joseph Humplhries, 745....0.:.scsscccsccccescossvcescosscsesssouccosoc A
Mahon, Robert James Bell, Jr., ’45 A
PAG ION, WV TAMeRED. WV OUBOEN, © FG ie 8 ei cinnstncadecsthddedscenecssdaee A
Malmquist, Russell Ernest, °45. A.
RAGING, OGRE Li yriin, ig Soo ciiaechesecs ie avcicccecsseeeackkatectks cae N*3
Marable, Eugene Russell, Jr., °44......... A
BESTIKOE PRMies BT is Os ccccthh pestis dacctacesaes An
DEED): VY CSRS Ao ATIC Me Neevvacksintodimudencsvedeinicduccsccnacicged A AF

Matthews, Murrel O., Jr., ’41

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Merrill, Kenneth Rene, °43

Mettam, Charles Edward, Jr., 46 ee Sie A
WETIpOE, - POC WENEL’ 80 Mei Re en a ee i oe A*®
DE TROEE,: FABR ORY WSL Tae rte te iileceakcdpscbocsesncstkeneccdt vadscdcdaatitanccn A*®
Milter, Lawrence Gordon. Ji; Aoes tisdee scacace’ scccal ckacos Luscce cel A
Ba iller,: Witten TAG PHTE ys Sih cbecessnscoveccctcscovcosvcssadecccecdcecous tii A
Miona, “Fists Victor, SB piesa eles sis cckesciescdetscscdeckstesdeilea Tae A
DE OFTAEL, | JOBCIIN INGRICE, “OO sicitactd ticks cthcselakccsecccdeniersetacscdisnese ste A
OE,  LOCIMIG © BK CIEE OOF ce creek ie osc ccd bie Sacco otk dk hs AAF*
Ba more, Fotis: Outen ine to iad cc Mantis cs deh ececscdss soc ocheennaincaae A
BEOOTC; TIE TOON PLES NWA vveslskcccocdibion ois, ea N*@
BROOMS, MOMETE “VV IMENT, iene adios nntsc. veeke dead hs Lk AAF*
REGS POL VE IEG, Bd cenit lash sho vhsScdesescencccSvtoaekikc hack aa A®
Wien TOgh, 2 Fe, WO scared Citas cose cessics A*
Moxa, Donatd RODETE (SOK iiels oe tinh ee A
Muehleisen, William Joseph, 744...........cccccccccscosccessosscsssececeees NAC

[ 10 |

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tt
rome and Class | | Branch of Service
k. Linton Fairfax, Ag ccick Naik; qneeipanvelslebadiaaes bikie nmaetanae N

Murdoc A

han, Douglas kK ames, 20 eee eeeeeeteneeeeeeeseeeeeeeesseseeesssseeseesesseeeeeed

Nat Hliam Harry, 45 .csccecccscesssoccccdsscocentencsisccctsescsessssesssnseced A
Naylor, Wi 2

el, Dr. Harry Bryan, '28......sccsesesessessesestessenesesssseeseneeseees N
aoa, William Frederick, | Fig. GM icccintacicdhedsscusesdsninsch-dotsnesctthatauele :

Karlyle, 729; .s-ccacpavcedbdob deliobewed hace dod etmecbolpsadents dyeddavnannnaenen
= i Palmer Raphael, '39.......sccsessseseseeeserssesssssssestssssseenses A*
Ogden,
: g K Orr BZ iiccke, Sablchisccccokeskasdebecetsccschnsenann tian A*

Osterman, Jame
Ottignon, James pee To oi eas A
) Philip Powers, Ji., 4o.ccceeseeee ca & ae
oe’ R aa Toit iat it ck eee \AF
rarker, Samuel Reagan, Jé.........
ene, Richard Johnson, Jr., ’42Z........cccsscccssssccsssssssessssessssssscssens N*
Peebles, F red Thomas," 2ocaccesiiecsiiiuedtedsvcesiocthcdse titans esneen ere
Peguillan, George Realpphe, 2465. cs. . sherssynsesatuhictstiohiprieaaientictions epi A
Philpott, James Alvin, A Sse cduissc eee a A
Picket, Edwin Samuel, °46...........cccccssssssscesscoscsscesenessocesecnsssssesscose A
Pinck, Dan Chan rittety “!QGE ois cctensdctend acostoswogecpatnetelbinteen tasotibcenthaed \
pinnell, Charles W CULO T | PAG; 5 oat shsenncysscnasanteuovesanigeaeainovgcyesdyoooed \
Pohizon, Henry BriGisehe, . SOc dpaviscnsseve gindlcseuteisebevtnvantenssedvas AAF
Powell, Charles Smith, RO Ei on theattciubsrchinsben caine del vee caret A
Powell, Edward Angus, "30...ssssssseeseseneeeeneereneneneneneenenceneeess N*
Prater, Raymond Pa vamtan, SAO scecis losccdhcas Abs ven codotas-suiventhenguabane - AC
Pultz, Beederick Dickinson “SO cccivcscsscasoecvestscyecssconscthsesecupicevl
Putnam, Donald GIGS oF rig GS cc canisatap soascana ecto dinanstantebetinas ! :
uisenberry, James Austin, '45........ccsccssscsesssesesseessencsssessessrens A
De icliffe, Richard Mi wibseitat > BO icisticcnctacest itivuseretdheatincnied AAK
Raines, Dr. Samuel Lucas, '21.......ccscsseseseeeeseseresnsseesssseseseeeeees A*
Reason, Daniel Rede, “BGciccesvsddkesdecadecaasccvcummcossdassyoctWkdbensi vetcdbaoee A
Reichhardt, Charles Frederick, ir, A rclasvivdusmracua bivadiveoebaes N*
Memsbure, Brent, °38.......dscccccccosccosssscssscsesccssessescrssscesveeteenssevsonvesee N
Deuter, Robert Ellsworth, °44..............0ccccssssssccsssscsesseesseneeed AAF*
meet Beverley Randolph ‘Lee, '29........iccccccococcqecccsscesdeeesesensees N*
Rice, Fenton Chester, 730........cccsscssssessesssesrssscssssssssssescesssseesseeed ! af
Rippetoe, F. Kennedy, '45-Ly..cesseseeeseeeessseeseserensssnsessnsessens N
SEY TIF TOC. J WITS, * OGiscinnendecodereceppectnagsstovesengcemndyesaheetbecgnedanl AAF
Bemmvell, Stephen Ensight, 745i. .ici.ccccsesssssectecsscabeccssscsccnpoossacasien A
Rogers, Charles Clinton, Jr., ’40.........cccscssssscssrreesssesesesessessessees A
Mee Tohn Wood watd, 745...ccccsecoscscsccovsseessecvesssocessesesnceoseesteecseosenee A
Royston, Robert Winter, ’23............ccccccscsscesersscensscrssssesesasveees N*
Rulevich, John Dominic, °43 A
SE TRICHAP ‘FP OLUAR,. 2 beikdevhsadecduckbonscabbedeyWiscdesevativectvappappipars N*
Ryan, John Nicholas, ’44....... A
Re Stanley FTHDE | Wi tccpcettecvecsteccedetsctvinsdasorwivce pivgeseassagbbaseeraed A
Safford, Robert Beardsley, °34 woo N*
Bre], Elliot Sidmeyg Foe civesasciccadncndidictnncs o¥eeceesseginselteusyctiouuseacs A
rel, Henry. FRGSraes cede sitistiacenthvgaiignbotectabeapannct A
merch, George Macinnes, * 4Gicdigsissocntepuvastasectapsenesthesceiedtbanbsevans A
memeider, Everett Joseph: Ji.,.°' 44 accscsesscsissccsssedesasiacesnatsisondsages A
ter, Whitt NortlsrOre, “4biikscccdcivientscanisscatecenscocdadaupysctoannytanl A
BNC, George. Fj" BSisisecicadvsavevecssecrtese ss enoasoepsipeudiit sosrhocpenenvens A
Seal, Robert Hutcheson, 44 SceasieeebetindGncdddueichocdut cainiiah cs aldaiianl tad A
Sellers, Philip Allen, °43........ s chanadiadarticekenuin AAF
memanart, Paul: Bolted: [45 ciicdibscc.s.ccstiacbecssueneasaptauesysonbabsoueinie A
o Allen Jett QBs abcctcs ceacd cccactcancvedenostSipuiectsceseticuregn sites \
hinn, William Carter, °46. AAF
Shirk, Kenelm LRWPRON CE Dee SA io Sides specks atearicnsabateteerted A AF
Shuman, 3 racEGOee ee BU, - i cnipdds costcscoscessp-boobcesigniaecbadedeset AAF*
Sibley, Corda Dr OR i isctiiscstieudes A
Reno, Leo JapGe tee tet hot ies toot cwoines sooth
Silverstein, Philip Jordan, '46......cscecseeees A
Memerstein, Sasi. Mbpe eit oe sakbhleaples demain doen ance eeacee
Simmons. Roy Bate eeiin ce We cakssslsciedoiesserseaphthvvounedoteghoadgian consctveons A
BeMMons, Sanders Perry, LIT, ’43.....ccccccceccsassesossssscecscessesosesee MC
Sein, Langdos: 1 esis (BGs dec ceicctccccasmcslgirine a oie AAF
Skinner. Thomas Bete SSF iak: vitinctatcthcierbeisactieccsechaightiee cee’ AAF*
Smallwood. He arWey Doan ithe BGs ceciticasecsoyavss covictcvcven ictevaheotedioons A
Smart, Felix Garrett, '42.....c.000 N*
Smith, James W. A., ’33..... N*

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

 

 

SEPM ee Dat EU AUUSS IG), "Asoc echsocconsoseckpesbusocccnassbcacdcedncsdhgnosocetivedl A
SS, TORI CR TRS, Rais asivagibeiscsdpcdtthiviacsncovbosnasdensebodivdtuesd cons N*
SE Wy PERE OTE a facto abiddninndetpi on osicodsdngdbensicésreieecss NAC
INT IND et ars ie cade gn -occeihsanhspnabansiabesbecesdhohes N
pO MUNPERINNS RINNE 00 MES Nog ois. rich nt ovo occcdseniocbhnnesdnansiuageai’ AAF
SUR CNNOEE, SA SOEIEIFE <COCHCTIRON, 300.15. tthbeeiioe soncccsacavtescdasssvasddssosseavons N
TOAST FACOG EME FOE chs in ap cpsrgdemaiphdovosceccecedetse Gosacnancbanessstand A
PAIR GT SR OBOOE Mahe 185 "4G iis asi tasks, «co,.ncacecosheecasseacdcsbesusdocd A
UN “PA LOR r PINE, © BBs eden Cader cundepksscoccpactsanaseosevecbonabacd A
en Steet Erato cacr diay cg ete vopo Ae Ucavibn scdnncvondssouaapanzeaie A
eeere a aries: Chemeeea. Mis icc. cacwivcoachabsthvtiioas ss dsb: 0scocevesesestbrdes A
SURO E.: “2 -RRCTED a OE ae ee i combabeh AAF
wereet, Goerive  Fiareee S15 ists chat ecnchiadbeees obiiiaibdnocvevaccdsiend AAF
eerect; smemh, Corey. 41 J. .ctcesn.cdadlndsdhacctclcdtasdisddgtabuiadeeainesscad A AF*
Switiford: Charles. Wilitesn.. “Ao ssid i chads vol ccstbiaa es idhoicudeecgntl A
‘Fankard, Dr. 7} eines VV UAE, “2 Pincksavsteccnsts «.cantejtankiabesiieroccisced A*
TeVlOr, ROWSE Bald, (6G sii ccic. concede eaten CA listed A
REGS, ERIE 0 PE BO oa. i ccc ccuasdoueiiaiieatndos oakaus epee <«0pabaies A
PRR ORSe EX CrWV Ue Wee OTRONS a 52>. oacce ccnatlabahenaiacedcoutphegnmibsessbavanl \
Teeubet.- Fone. © pertiitey GA ss eo hing le. kava capsnttigbenias A
Thomas,” Tea ward * WRCCIOE, AG iivias ss dace cdkreieescrtretacvcdcassedtowca A
SE TINGS, WA RO Cte ASF 8255 se Soe cceuk osaiadh cadbencesbieeveaseccebddarsanvenee \
SE ORD GII SM ELON eI OD. Sei ied cin cs oidcdeocdentnastbcceeh estates N*
OU ain Ca SU a Oh a sc ee N
TC OG VN ES, Aig. Bn acon ccdcshococvadtewscsdlepaemackbestouenéd \
ES OLLCMS a MOEIIND FEMININE Fai cis cocss can cigsctdcanaieansvunabceuv’ cds uid A
aL ORGY re IIE LOE, 7 Oia 2, acic. cade cvcdipadisienso cdtndiitnes odiiaaawa cated \
TE DUDGES: VARIED Ey PER 4G. 5. 5. cosctnivanacasbbtacensecesstatns buns MEEEaandlod A
TACOS, TRON V0 ORE IO .csncososgdvevendsasccadtiinsscccedbipsesshstehadins N*
SE SURREY, {PR RUUN AT MRO MN is... dis ipinidee eco GN be ach acdapubberevLbVOmaMEIm \
Gee W Skt: PEMUWPMAT Ge A CPPEDIIRE: 30. cd cients vacinnchdnitvectasocchdhdaspunsoeel N*
PURE RICO DPR, Fa a onli chat nic ceain yssvncSodbelsneeovtae CG
EV OUG PRUE TOME OEE, WE Me cdo acacks iidasteoyscnecoudsoodanaabel AAF
UPreniareeP CRE SCR MEMS, 02 ehh des son Sih digs essa vanascmoes phicoce ollie N*
Vance, Fenty Breckinridge, Weis cinilodacsis.seecciecQ@evudentirciae A
Veranda); 21 ten TBO, 246i iio ticcsths sbeacd oc deka A
Vickere; Andtew | Waliain, . G7 sisi itppccilinss Sodess.. tds Gisaeinied N*
TA ©, WA MARTA A TICE, AG <5. sun Zcca honed cthiknlnodccevccs<cuckanhcuvesen Ga N*
WV EET. SRB PETICO) TE Oy AN ocescaaséctes<psdace,cpckec chbasdascdes teelivcaccsanadel N
OE OG OGG AN IO SOG Be sks Stennesicbac tonctbnnsivvebcesithoac ikl A
WH METROE DUIION, FG ncaa kasecae scales Sais aaabvcckgacethplecninbcckadedeastneeein A
Watterson, Hal Blanton, ’40....................... Sas N
Wesver, Waltee Charining: P7205. s.inssiaisenaccckeleces treitvcevcteak A
WSR COPS FOOL AG i vison ciecvtcecvenrsnchock devatcscat ek A
Wiertesceeater Sng’ Ti TAS sie a iasccaccsics aac eat A
WA CREE, AOE Gs oaltis sss dhswectbdecnecdaboccsschctieltbuticwintenstiG A
Whingi-d Ot) SenOGees BG... i aeeissinciscscsaiin ey A*
WV Tein, SHAR CNOe ser ONE, 7 99 oss cit canicse odednisacdomnibhcndstindioad A AF
OE. ERC OL ee SRC TR Ce hice cess sc aicatbonbsoo cebiaens N*
My Cs A CON IR AIDE | Ms socccadu eo th sondcdecvasscccacsbulit eawcas.c3.c0ees N*
Sy eee Penta PUR SAE et hah cokes vel Oko A
WU Sag TREN NE Fuh ads os ck abcskcetediansiabGamseiccvéccecescSecocatat N*
Vibe poetintanees yet a ei oe aes AAF
WARNS, FL GORGE. SICIGON ) SAGs. cénsks ced neleude ches sticeivtscootsinc ned A
WV Tse, “2r MaRNR BTV, 4S. anvcnscoicechnsttbcdsovehicns snicless Giakartiidaienad A
OPE SEE PRRNURON S20. Rafik once caf cabikahesecasih ousacahos<othcoduaiaaieanetaaan A*
WV TORS FROG POTN aie oo .ocs citiatesecencscbockdvssces AAF
WV OG J ONT REMAIN Oc. sc cnddecdhededueinsciccoeccauiad ; A
Woroodrull, “Albert: 22erold, "46.65... ik See. A
W dosley,seeres Elmo 942 oe ee ay es eee acaba AAF
Wootéers,;Chatlés Reynolds, TA; 044.) ian. iii etacis.sccctns CG*
Vio ricitin. Series Recaro ee. ikendbenes A
WW@Tit8 CON g | Bly AS Aiea paseics cated ea MAAR chad babe done cecit CG
Yen VWVaeeatin TCG ward. 59s. jt. ratte evi nailcascntadecm\eccess N*

 

Youhe, Wreaittiam’ Arnolds TET Hapa tecoessscsccdbbecsecsasssocescg AAF
Yotne, Walliam. Stephenson, 40. esse. cc dassiccdic cose. AAF*
Zeimcket; Tedwiri: Alpert, Jie, Mmacdsdscthccececescccscecthiccécocesccecd AAF
Zatmoisks, Josephs: BAichaeed | LEAs Finccctetiséveddénincnateccotyescoscooces ctekc: A

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Recapitulation of Winter Sports

sy MARLE PALMER Brown, 1943

INTER sports this season dropped from their usual

high place on our University calendar. The basket-
ball team, long a power in the Old Dominion, had one
of its poorest seasons.

The start of the season found us without a coach and
Cap'n Dick Smith felt himself lucky to secure the services
of George S. (Gummy) Proctor, former VPI coach and
well known Southern Conference official.

With a coach of Proctor’s calibre and six lettermen
returning for the scmester, led by Captain Leo Signaigo,
the prospects for a state tiltle looked good.

We won our opener from Roanoke and then dropped
a one point decision to William and Mary through a
scorekeeper’s error. The team later dropped another one
pointer to Virginia. These two bad breaks didn’t dis-
hearten the boys and they came back to win successive
victories over Maryland, North Carolina, Camp Pickett,
Hampden Sydney, and Lynchburg.

After those five triumphs things began to happen.
Capt. Signaigo received his service call, Dick Working
left for service with the A.E.R.C.

We lost a close one to VPI and then lost our third
game by a single point to Richmond. Things went worse
as more boys left, among them Leon Harris, our six-foot-
five center. We continued to lose games.

The peak of the season was the game with George
Washington University. The George Washington boys
came down to Lexington expecting a duplication of their
easy 20-point victory a few nights before. George Wash-
ington, now the Conference champions, left feeling lucky
to have even won. Five Generals started and played the
entire route without a substitution. At the end of the game
the score was 38-38 and it had to go into overtime.

At the end of the first overtime it was still tied 43-43
and those five boys in blue were still in there fighting the
onrush of George Washington reserves. This last period
told the story as the capital city club went out to win,
with our boys practically out on their feet.

After that thriller we lost George Wood, our reserve
center, and Jack Kibler, a guard. All in all nine boys left
the squad for the service and Proctor had a hard task to
keep five capable men on the floor. I*reddie Vinson, a
talented freshman, moved into a starting position along
with Harry Baugher and our great guard combine, Har-
ry Harner and Clancy Ballenger. Towards the end of the

[ 12]

  
   
    
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

season Vinson contracted the measles and ““Gummy” yw;
forced into the intramurals to find players. We continue
to lose games. !
The last game was with Virginia. The Wahoos hae
been boasting of the ability of their “Deadshot” Die
Wiltshire, the state’s leading scorer. Ours was a sweet vie.
tory, 46-35. Harry Harner, W. and L,. sensational sophe
more, held the highly touted Wiltshire to three points,
Harner and Ballenger are a couple of fine ball pla
ers and between them they scored just under 400 point
from their guard positions. Baugher at forward was o
the job all season, but he, like the others, was handicappee
by having too big a job to do.

Pree

WRESTLING was a bright spot. The Blue matmen wen
through the regular season with only one loss and three
victories. The place of Coach Archie Mathis, now a nave
officer, was taken by the two co-captains, Sammy Grahan
and Bud Robb, both former Conference champions.

The team lost its first match to Carolina and then bea’
North Carolina State, Duke, and V. P.I in that order

soth Graham and Robb were undefeated and along wit
several sophomores gave Washington and Lee a goo¢
shot at the Conference championship, held this year at
Waynesboro, Virginia, under our sponsorship and di-
rected by William C. Raftery, former football coach here

Uncle Sam beckoned to our grapplers as well. Before
the championships both our co-coaching co-captains left
for the Air Corps. Graham picked the Army and Robb
went to join Archie Mathis in the Navy Air Corps. As
if that wasn’t enough an epidemic of measles hit our two
best sophomores, George Bird and Jack Burger. As a re-
sult we only entered four men in the tournament, and
didn’t do much, Our best was a second by Bob Crockett
in the 155-Ib. class.

V. M. I. won this year’s championship by a single
point over Carolina. It was V. M. I.’s third Conference
title. Carolina has won one and Washington Lee has won
the other five.

As for the outlook for spring sports, the University
Committee on Athletics has dropped everything but base-
hall and will concentrate on that. Cap’n Dick Smith has
six returning lettermen and over 30 boys have turned out.
The team plays a twelve game schedule and should help
avenge losses by our football and basketball teams.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

1868

WickHAM died in Richmond, Vir-

Henry T.

LION.
‘nia, March 5, 1945. State Senator Wickham, Washing-
g «

ton and [.ee’s second oldest alumnus, 93 years of age,
0 «

was gradu ited from the University when it was. still
Washington ¢ ‘ollege. He was a student during General
Robert E. Lee's pr esidency and received his degree from
the hand of Lee. He had served one term in the House of
Delegates and had been a State Senator from Hanover

Virginia, for 37 years. He was president pro
e of the Senate when he died. His death came just

and LL.

County,

tempor
twelve hours before the death of another W.
graduate, Hon. FRANK Moore, ’96, also a member of the
Virginia General Assembly. Senator Wickham received

an honorary LL.D. degree from his alma mater in 1935.

Tuomas S. Noreveet died April 7, 1942, at his home
North Carolina.

in Roxboro, He was 93 years of age.

1873

Jupce WittiAM H. TayLor died December 19, 1942,
at his home in Uniontown, Alabama, at the age of 90. He
had a long and honorable career in public life in Alabama.

1876

LAWTHER died recently at his home
Lawther was an active member of

Hon. Harry P.

in Dallas, Texas. Mr.
the local legal profession, having been president of the
‘ye > . .
lexas Bar Association.

1885

Duncan C. Hetywarp died on January 24,
1943, at his home in Columbia, South Carolina. Mr. Hey-
ward was a former governor of South Carolina and the
author of the book,

published in 1937,

Hon.

“Seed from Madagascar,” which was

1893

Dk. Duke Hunter Hurraker died December 29,
1942, at his home in El Paso, ‘Texas. He was a prominent
pioneer in the city, having served on many public boards
during his long career.

1895

Major SELDEN Brooke Armat, U. S. Army (re-
red ), died in June, 1942, at his home in Washington, D.C.

McBrRYDE a heart attack

at the age of 67.

ROBERT J. died recently of

He was a former editor with the Louts-

ville (Ky.) Times and later with a brokerage firm of
that city.
1896
Hon. FRANK Moore died in Lexington, Virginia,

1943. He had been a member of the Vir-
ginia House of Delegates since 1924 and at the time of

on March 5,

his death was chairman of the appropriations committee.
He was 71 years old.

1897
Dr. Mossy GARLAND PERROW died suddenly of apo-
p-exy, February 26, 1943. He was, before his death, the

director of the Lynchburg, Virginia, Bureau of Health.

Dr. Hucn S$. Wuire died at his home in El Paso,
Texas, on January 22, 1943. He was a member of the
American College of Surgeons and was one of the out-
standing physicians of the nation.

1901

IREDERICK Wuuite died December 24,
1942, at his home in Roanoke, Virginia. He had been for
thirty-five years associated with the American Steel and
Wire Company, until his retirement in June, 1940,

AMERICUS

1902

Davis died December 30, 1942, at Jack-
son, Mississippi, where he was in the cotton brokerage

business.

VERNON TT.

ALEXANDER DONNAN HAMiIL'TON died at his home
in Walnut Hill, Virginia. He had been a prominent law-
yer in Petersburg, Virginia, and was active in both civic
and social circles.

1907

PAINTER died January 16, 1943. He was
West Virginia.

MARTIN |.
a well known attorney in Beckley,

1908

JUDGE ARNOLD of

died January 20,

Roperr W. Waverly, Virginia,
1943, in the St. Elizabeth’s Hospital,
Richmond, Virginia, following an illness and operation.
Judge Arnold was judge of the Third Judicial Circuit of
Virginia.

[ 13 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1911

Lecky M. KINNEAR of Lexington, Virginia, died at
his home on February 11, 1943. Mr. Kinnear served in
the First World War as a captain in the Coast Artillery.

1918

Francis ‘T. Cote died on January 25, 1943, at his
home in Kast Rockaway, New York.

1920

Water E. Smiru died at his home in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, on February 14, 1943. He was formerly a
professor at the Chinese University, Nanking, and later
practiced law in Jacksonville, Florida.

 

Marriages

1926

Douc.ias E. Naruan, U.S. Army, to Barbara J. Al-
len, December 27, 1942, at Fitchburg, Massachusetts.

1928

Roperrt AmsEy Merritt, Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., to
Louise Watson Smith, on Saturday, January 8, 1943 at
Greensboro, N. C.

1932

Paut HAmILton Worrorp, Jr., Lieutenant, U. 5.
Marine Corps, to Eleanor Lucille Paschal, Sunday, De-
cember 27, 1942, at Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

1937

IsAporE Mryer Scort, Captain, Army of the United
States, to Joan Edith Rosenwald, Sunday, February 14,
1943, at Jenkintown, Pennsylvania.

1939

Josepu C. Murpny, Lieutenant, U. S. Army, to
Mary Conlan, Riverside, California, on January 2, 1943.

1940

Louis FREEMAN PLUMMER, Captain, U. 5. Army, to
Phyllis Eliot Boothe, at the Indiantown Gap Military
Reservation, Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania, on Satur-
day, January 13, 1943.

Harry Burnet Stoppart, Lieutenant (j.g) U.S.N.R.,
to Virginia Cooper Thompson, on January 11, 1943, at
San Diego, California.

Lia

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

GLENMORE MurrELL Asu, Lieutenant, Army Aj
Corp, to Margot Winifred Lambton, January 20, 1943, ag
Harrogate, Yorkshire, Mngland.

Thomas KENNEDY HeEvM, Jr., U. S. Army, to Ne

Hunt Hoge.
1941

Robert CLAYBOURNE PEtrrEY to Helen Virginia Ka
brich, on Sunday, December 27, 1942, Blacksburg, Vir
ginia.

ForTUNATUS SyYDNOR KIRKPATRICK to Jeanne
Thompson, January 24, 1943, at Lynchburg, Virginia,

Perer SPENCER Barrow, Jr., to Marguerite Evelyn
Rowe, March 2, 1943, in Washington, D. C.

CuHEstER Harvey Conover, United States Army, te
Frances Aldyth Van Camp, January 24, 1943, at Point
Pleasant Beach, New Jersey. .

1942

Howarp WeEsLEy Dossins, Ensign, U.S.N.R., to
Virginia Anne Jones, January 30, 1943, in Richmond
Virginia.

CHARLES PEALE DipiEr, Lieutenant, United States
Marine Corps Reserve, to Mary Walton Desha, Janua
24, 1943, Robert E. Lee Memorial Church, Lexington
Virginia.

WittiamM MicayAun Martin, to Susan Sherrill, Jul
28, 1942, in California.

JAMES Ropert STERRETT, Lieutenant, Army Air
Corp, to Anne Berry, on January 18, 1943.

Epcar McLouis Boyp, Ensign, U.S.N.R., to Kath-
leen Grady, December 5, 1943, in Baltimore, Maryland.

1943
Wittiam ALLEN Futter, A.B., January, °43, was
married to Lucy Byrd White, March 6, 1943, in South
Boston, Virginia.
NEELY Younc, Lieutenant, U. S. Army Air Corps,
to Mary Churchill Buck, Thursday, March 11, at Blythe-
ville, Arkansas.

 

An Apology

Tue ALUMNI OFFICE wishes to apologize for its fail--
ure to list the names of Mr. Kenneth I. McKay, 1904,
and Dr. William L. Woolfolk, 1925, in the Alumni Fund
Report for 1942.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1903

(GEORGE COUPER (GIBBS
pecame Attorney General
of the State of Florida on
May 16, 1938, and served
inl that capacity until Jan-
ary 7 1941, at the ex-
piration of his term of of-
fice. He did not offer for
re-election, and resumed
private practice of law at his home in Jacksonville,

 

the
Florida. Prior to his service as Attorney General he was

Circuit Judge for nearly twenty-one years. His home 1s
at 2717 Riverside Avenue, and he says he would be de-
lighted to see any member of the Class of ’03.

1905

Arruur BirtLeE OBENSCHAIN is pastor of a Luth-
eran Church in Lexington, South Carolina, He has two
children, one son and one daughter, and two grand-
daughters. He received his D.D. degree in 1930.

1906

R. B. (“Buck”) Sprnv_e is Judge of the Corpora-
tion Court of Norfolk, Virginia. His son, Richard Buck-
ner, Il, graduated in May with the A.B. degree, cum
laude.

|. W. Eocieston is one of the Justices of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals of Virginia, with offices in the
City Hall Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

1907

W. K. (“BILL”) RAMSEY
chief claim to fame is a charming wife,
three fine sons, and a lovely daughter, all
in good health. He would like to see and
hear from others of the Class of 1907.
He is land agent for the International
Boundary Commission, El Paso, Texas.

says his

Cnaries F. Bactey is president of ="
the Union National Bank of Fayetteville,

, , ‘ : wate
ennessee. His son, Charles F., Jr., ‘41, Me
“a ; : E . 4 ca se wy dia
is a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, and li

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class
notes appearing in this issue. The letters from which
these notes are taken were wrilten, for the most part,
early last spring. The rapid influx of alumni into the
several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes
inaccurate. We would like to have more material for
class notes in letters to your Class Agents this year.

  
  

agus
Nl

Fa ‘7 “7y
—= J writ
Tels MB Nob

another son, Joe, "45, just
inducted into the Army
Air Corps within the last
two weeks.

1908

H. R. MAHLER Is su-
perintendent of schools,
Thomasville, Georgia. He
has four grown sons all
making their way in the
world. He is already a grandfather, and has two fine

 

 

grandchildren.

Dozier DEVANE is a member of the law firm of De-
Vane, Andrews and Patterson, Florida Bank Building,
Orlando, Florida, but spends much of his time in Wash-
ington, which he says is “hard on a country boy.”

1910

Pui Herscuer is cashier of the Kanawha Banking

and ‘Trust Company of Charleston, West Virginia.

Rayrorp W. ALvry has practiced law in New York
for twenty-eight years. He is senior member of the firm

of Alley, Cole and Grimes, 30 Broad Street, New York.

He has two children, a daughter and a son.

1911

J. Tom Warson is Attorney General of the State of
Ilorida.

Omer T. Kaytor, attorney-at-law, Hagerstown,
Maryland, has a son in his second year at
Washington and Lee.

1912

A. G. LivEty is Judge of the 27th Ju-
dicial District of Virginia. His home is in
lebanon, Virginia. He is chairman of the
Alien Enemy Hearing Board for the
Western District of Virginia, and chair-
man of the rationing board of his county.

   

IraNncis J. HEAZEL has his law offices
in Asheville, North Carolina. He is a
member of the firm of Heazel, Harts-
horne and Redmond; also vice-president

ry ie"
/

AU ii “Méeley 15, yee

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

and special counsel for the Metropolitan Casualty Insur-

ance Company of New York, and spends considerable
time in connection with this work in New York.

1913

M. A. StevENSON has been in the ministry of the
Methodist Church since 1914, his present position being
that of Superintendent of the Morristown District, Hols-
ton Conference. He is married and has two children,
Ruth and Dick, the latter being a college senior.

Joserpu J. (Rosy) GLaAss is still practicing law in San
Antonio, ‘Texas, but for the past four years has been
working with the WPA. He is married and has a daugh-
ter eight vears old.

1914

Wavrrer Witkins, Federal Compress and Ware-
house Company, Pine Bluff, Arkansas, has two son,
Walter, Jr., B.A

Hopkins, and Howard entered Washington and Lee at

.. +1, is studying medicine at Johns-

the beginning of the summer session.

RoperT P. Hopson is still practicing law in the Ken-
tucky Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky. His
son, Robert C., graduated from the Law School in May

and is now in Naval ‘Training School.

1915

Suirk, District Attorney, 33° North Duke

Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. His son, K. L.,

KR Ty

lr., has

a

recently been inducted into the Army Ajp
Corps. His daughter 1s at Southern Seminary
in Buena Vista.

W. A. KELEHER is practicing law in the,
National
Mexico.

lirst Bank, Albuquerque, New

1916

Howarp C. Hicks is administrator jy

the Department of Assessments, Nassay
County, New York. He has a daughter whe
is attending Syracuse University.

Lycurcus HyreE is practicing law ig
Buckhannon, West Virginia. |

1917

Ismory P. Barrow has been practicing
law in Lawrenceville, Virginia, since World
War I. He served in the Virginia legislature
for two terms.

Gus OTTENHEIMER gave up his law prae-
tice in 1922, to go into the department store
business. He is now vice-president and treasurer of Ot
tenheimer Brothers. Incorporated, Little Rock, Arkansas,
manufacturers of ladies’ apparel, employing over 300
people.

1918

hirziuvucn Mayo is teaching at the Landon School
for Boys at Bethesda, Maryland, and is also the director
of a boys’ camp in New Hampshire. He has a boy at
V. P. I. who will graduate a year from Christmas.

1919

LEONARD |. Brown is still a member of Lott-Merlin,
Inc., wholesale paper dealers, doing business in Connecti-
cut and New York State. His address is 700 W. Jackson
Street, Bridgeport, Conn. He is married and his daughter,
Muriel, graduated from Itdgewood Park School, Briar-
cliff Manor, New York, in June.

1920

Joun McKown is in the furniture and floor cover-
ing business in Waynesboro, Virginia. His son graduated
from Mercersburg Academy in June and he had fond
dreams of his entering Washington and [ee this fall, but
he decided to enlist in the Army Atr Corps instead.

CHESTER STEADE, is at present counsel in the Legal
RIC, 811 Vermont Avenue, N.W., Wash-
ington. After graduation, he was in general practice for

Division of

14 years in Dallas and los Angeles, during most of

| 16 |

 

_—

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

he also managed a real estate subdivision
| ouisiana. Since 1934 Chester has been a

which time
business 1! ' : ‘ :
Governmen! lawyer, hirst with lederal Home wan Bank
soard for more than 7 years, then with the War Depart-
+ for a short time, and now with RFC. He is married

men ‘ } :
is two daughters, one of whom 1s a sophomore nl

and hé
college.

fA. HANSBARGER Is an official of the Supreme Court
of Appeals of West Virginia at Charleston. On dissolu-
tion of the Dallas firm of Hansbarger and Shade, Itch
rook up practice in Williamson, West Virginia, for 12
years, during which time he served a term as assistant
prosecuting attorney for Mingo County. lor eight years
thereafter he served in the office of the West Virginia
State Tax Commissioner, first as chief of the Inheritance
and Estate Tax Division, and later as assistant tax com
missioner. Iich’s home address 1s 1637 Quarrier Strect,
Charleston, W. Virginia.

1921

W. T. CALDWELL attended Yale Law School after
leaving Washington and Lee, eraduating in 1926, and
then went to New York where he has been practicing with
the firm of Chadbourne, Hunt, Jaeckel and Brown, of
which he has been a member for the past ten years. He
lives in Greenwich, Connecticut, is married, and has four

children.

GrorcE Stong, M.D., has been practicing medicine
and surgery at 25 Park Avenue, Suffern, New York, for

the past ten years.

A. MERRYMAN GILBERT 1s acting post-
master, Martinsburg, West Virginia for the
duration.

1922

RupoLpn JONEs is with the State High-
way Department in Jackson, Mississippi, 1n

the capacity of Division Engineer.

Dr. Dewry A. REYNOLDs is busy at the
United States Bureau of Mines, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, where a mid-winter promotion
gave him the rating of full chemist. He says
that he and Dr. R. I. Sherrill get together

with their families frequently.

1923

R. Maurice (‘“Strupen’t’) Frew has

heen with the Winnsboro Mills. a unit of the
United

States Rubber Company, for six

years. For three and a half of these years he has been
employee relations manager. He says what it really
amounts to is chairman of the Headache Committee. His
address is Winnsboro Mills, Winnsboro, South Carolina.

STEPHEN D. L&E is headmaster, Riverside Military

Academy. Gainesville, Georgia.
‘ >

1924

Henry W. JoNEs is engaged in the wholesale lumber
business at Memphis, Tennessee, and is busy supplying
various war industries with their hardwood lumber re-
quirements. He is married and has two sons, one aged
twelve, and the other only thirteen months old.

NoRPLEET TURNER is executive vice-president of the
lirst National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee.

J. N. Tuomas, D.D., has been for two years at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, as Professor
of Theology. He is married and has a little daughter seven
and a son who was two in July. He is a member of the
University Board of ‘Trustees.

Joun G. GUERRANT is vice-president of the Virginia
Paper Company, Richmond, Virginia. He has lived in
Richmond since 1924. Has a wife and one daughter,
eleven years old.

1925
By Class Agent BRUCE GANNAWAY

WittiAmM IL. Wootrotk, 2118 I rederica Street,

Owensboro, Kentucky, continues as an Eye, Kar, Nose

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and Throat specialist. He received his M.D. from Penn

in 1929, and on October 20, 1934 was married to Miss
Julia Porter. They have two children; Margaret, who
will be six on December 2, and William, Jr., who was
three on April 10. Bill’s 30 new pounds bring him up to
145. He says his hair is true in color, but some of it has
left.

W. E. Moors is practicing law in Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the First National Bank Building.

W.S. Brock, Brock Candy Company, Chattanooga,
Tennessee, is president of a very “sweet”? business. On
April 5, 1928 Bill married Miss Myra Kniesi (Bill, |
can’t make that name out, I’m afraid, but it’s changed
now, so what's the difference) and they have three chil-
William, II, November 23, 1930, Paul

Kniesi, born June 4, 1932, and Frank Acree, born Febru-

dren: born
ary 21, 1942. Bill looks the same, but like most uf us, has
put on 20 pounds.

Marvin F. Hummer, 1010 Massachusetts Avenue,
N.E., Washington, D. C., is manager and part owner of
W. F. Hummer and Son Company (Coal and Fuel) Mar-
vin is still single, so we may look for his APO number.

He picked up his 20 pounds, but otherwise is unchanged.

Preston C. MANNING, 234-B West I:vans Street,
Ilorence, South Carolina, is owner of a General Insur-
ance Agency. On September 27, 1927, he married Miss
Wallace Williams, and they have three sons; Preston,

Jr., born January 4, 1931; Fred W., born October 27,

    
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
 

ee,

1934; and Richard I., born August 8, 1949
Pete hasn’t changed a bit, but Ill be my
socks he can’t run a 440!

Tom Harmon, 1759 Union Commereg
suilding, received his J.D. from Michigag
in 1928, was married on July 2, 1932 to Migg
Gertrude A. Milde, and now has three chig
dren: Nan Milde, born December 6, 1933;
Peter Willis, born 1935: and
Thomas Lee, born January 19, 1941. Tom ig

October 5,

some 10 pounds lighter than when at W. and
[.., and those gray hairs are sprinkled over
his head.

Herpert PoLLtack, 20 Kast 76th Street,
New York City, received his M.D. from
Cornell in 1929, and his Ph.D. in medicine
from Minnesota in 1933. On June 27, 1935,
he married Miss Helen Young. At the time
of his letter, April 14, Herb was waiting té
be called into the Armed Services. One da
I listened to a talk by Herb on a National
Radio Program, so he must be moving along nicely. Wé
all remember what a chemical ‘whiz’ he was at Wash
ington and Lee. Herb, with graying hair, has gained 33
pounds.

W. W. Exvern, Box 6815, Towsen, Maryland, is a
Psychiatrist at the Sheppard-Pratt Hospital. On August
2, 1930, he married Miss Elizabeth Knight. That’s all I
know about Bill, but he must have a most interesting)
work. I have three friends who have had their mental
troubles cleared up at Sheppard-Pratt.

Eart MArTrincLy, treasurer, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, doesn’t give any information
about himself, so we shall presume that he is still single,
and still doesn’t have any too much hair. In spite of all
the digs we took at Matt when we were at W. and L.,
I’m sure we'll agree the University is fortunate to have
him take Mr. Penick’s place as treasurer.

Curtis LANGHORNE, Emory University, Georgia, 1S
professor of Psychology, and Assistant Registrar of
Emory. After leaving Washington and Lee, he got his
Ph.D. from Ohio State in 1932. He married Miss Mary
Summers on June 3, 1937. Curtis has broadened out to
180 pounds, and the gray matter is showing on the out-
side of his head. After a long siege of arthritis, he seems
to have won the battle.

Darspy Brown, 3925 Clairmont Avenue, Birming-
ham, is associated with Jackson, Securities and Invest-
ment Company. He was married on June 16, 1928 to

[ 18 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

— tt

fiss Mary \tkinson, and on January 24, 1936, Amelia
\ iss i < : . 4 - -
. _anme to bless their home. Darby would be recog-
Restor cats -

-ac all. for in these 17 years, he hasn’t changed a
ec by Us ah : :

iz
pit.

LUTHER KEYNOLDS, Care Mrs. John Vick, Cullman,
\Jabama, is now a lieutenant in the Navy, attached to the
Sth Naval | istrict, New Orleans. On September 11, 1934,

he married \Miss Magdalene Cooper. Luther says he has
ne from 160 to 175 pounds, and that he can be de-
“ct

scribed as one ot those slightly gray.

1926
BuRKE WILLIAMSON Is living in Lake Forest, Illinois,
4 suburb of Chicago, with his wife and their daughter
Heanor, now fourteen months old. He is still practicing
law in Chicago with the firm of Adams, Nelson and Wil-

,

liamson, 39 South LaSalle Street.

1927

LuTrHer H. ReEpcAy is executive director of the De-
partment of Public Assistance for Snyder County. His
home is at Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania. He is married and
has two daughters, Elizabeth, 11 vears old, and Helen,

eight years old.

I. W. Ginssurec, M. D.,
at 3401 N. Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

is practicing his profession

1928

BitL NORMAN is assistant to the general manager of
the Crossett Lumber Company. Most of his
duties lie in the personnel and labor rela-
tions work. He is married and has a son
seven, and a daughter, four. His home is in

Crosset, Arkansas.

CHARLES F. Sruart is Welfare Super-
visor, Remington Arms Company, Kansas
City, Missouri.
1929

Joun Bett Tow1Lt is a member of the
law firm of Hull, Marrett. Willingham and
lowill. Augusta, Georgia. He is also presi-
dent of the Rotary Club of that city.

ARNOLD SCHOLSSBERG has been back in
; 4 : "* . . - .
Roanoke, \ irginia, for about a year, having
©pened law offices in the Boxley Building.

W. A. MacDonoveu started as a sales-
man with the Patterson Auld
Company in 1929; was vice-president and
sales manager when he left them in 1941.

Burr. and

Had a year and a half with Graybar in their merchandise
department and is now with the Jam Handy Organiza-
tion during contact work in the field. He married Eliza-
beth Newman, Randolph-Macon College, 1939, A.B., and
they have one daughter, Sarah Linda, born November
14, 1940.

1930

Joun H. NELSON is in the wholesale auction branch
of the tobacco business with the Banner Warehouse, Dan-
ville, Virginia.

». RK. NicHots has a son four years old and a daugh-
ter two. He is in the cotton shipping, compress, storage
and plantation business, under the firm name of S. R.
Nichols and Company, offices, Little Rock, Des Arc and
Brinkley, Arkansas.

1931

CAPTAIN GILMORE N. NUNN is now on leave from
the Army and is Vice-Consul to Portugal, with head-
quarters in Lisbon. His home address, from which mail
will be forwarded, is Care J. Lindsay Nunn, Radio Build-
ing, Lexington, Kentucky.

1932

L.. C. HARRELL, JR., was married in 1935 and has two
children, a boy five, and a girl, born January 3, 1942. He
Is attorney for the Commonwealth, Greenville County,
Kmporia, Virginia.

1933

JAMEs I. GILLESPIE is vice-president of the Wilker-

 

[ 19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

son Mortgage and Insurance Company, Comer Building,

sirmingham, Alabama. In 1937 he married Elizabeth
Gray Davis.

SHELBY W. BLATTERMAN is farming at May’s Lick,
Kentucky. He reports good going.

3AILEY FULTON Davis is pastor of the Springfield
Baptist Church, Springfield, Kentucky. He has a wife
and two daughters.

Kpwin W. Cuittrum is principal of the New Hope
High School, New Hope, Virginia.

WALLACE WERBLE is editor of Food-Drug-Cosmetic
Reports, with offices in The National Press Building,

Washington, D. C.

JERRY ADE was with the Greater New York U.S.O.—
Joint War Appeal, when his letter was written last May.
His address is 33 E. 43rd Street, New York.

PAUL HOLBROOK was practicing medicine at Greenup,
Kentucky, when his letter was written in June. However
he expected to be in the Army before long.

Joun L. Ericson is practicing law in New Britain,
Connecticut.

DonALD K. CRAWFORD is a member of the law firm of
Arnold and Crawford, Elkins, West Virginia. Mr. Arn-
old is also an alumnus of Washington and Lee, class of
1901. Donald is rationing chairman for his county, and
as he is a bachelor, expected to be in the service before

long.

| 20 |

al

KIRWIN THOMAS EVERNGAM is now As.
sistant U. S$. District Attorney. His address
is Post Office Building, Baltimore, Mary~
land.

Jor BEAR has been with the Bear Lup
ber Company, Montgomery, Alabama, fog
the past five years; has been married fof
three years and has a baby girl about eighty
een months old.

Dr. Ropert RAGSDALE SMITH has res
cently moved from Ambler, Pennsylvania tg
Washington and Lincoln Avenues, Newton,
Pennsylvania. He is doing private practice,

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  

and is physician for George School, a pris
vate preparatory school, located in Newton,
He is also medical director of the Out-Pa
tient Clinics of Arlington Memorial Hose
pital. He reports the birth of Robert Rags
dale, Jr., on May 1, 1942.

Dr. ALviIn B. OrRTNER became chief resi
dent of surgery at the Louisville Central Hospital on
July 1, 1942. He is also instructor in surgery at the Uni
versity of Maryland School of Medicine. He is still ¢
bachelor.

1934

Darsy BeErtTs is rector of the Episcopal Church, The
Plains, Virginia.

TAYLOR JONES is practicing law in Jacksonville, Florie
da, under the firm name of Rogers, Towers and Bailey,
Consolidated Building.

IARRAR NEWBERRY, JR., has been appointed State
Manager of South Carolina for the Woodmen of the
World, Life Insurance Society. His new address is 2830
Duncan Street, Columbia, South Carolina.

Vicror MARSHALL, M.D., is now resident surgeon iff
Urology and also instructor in surgery in Cornell Unie
versity Medical School, 525 E. 68th Street, New York
City.

IrED Fox is district manager of sales with the Su-
perior Steel Corporation, office 2013 Peoples Gas Build-
ing, Chicago. He was married to Dorothy J. Foster last
vear.

RicHArp W. Grarron, Life Insurance Service, One
State Street, Trenton, N.
last October.

J., moved into his new home

CARLTON Victor WARE, JR., is in the grain and fer-
tilizer business in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He was married

-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

last December 10,to Marjorie Hames of Atlanta, Georgia.
He expected to be in the Army before long.

1936
losEPH J. HARDING is vice-president of Harding
R thers Incorporated, president, Emporia Country
0 “9 7
Club, vice-] aot On ae a |
Southside Virginia Golf Association, and director,

resident, Cavalier Stores, Incorporated, presi-

dent, rad ae ,
[smporia federal Building and Loan Association. He is
married and has a little daughter.

1937

DUANE BERRY Is with the Armstrong Cork Company,
424 West Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Georgia. He says
he is married to “the choicest one of the crop” of Georgia
peaches. His home address is 356 Whitmore Drive, N.W.,
Atlanta, Georgia.

SoUTHERN TOMPKINS is interning at the University
of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.

JouN CHAMP NEELY is deputy collector of Internal
Revenue, Los Angeles, California.

Roper’ R. RapcvirF is still with the Essex Rubber
Company, Trenton, New Jersey. He says his daughter,
Robbie Lee, is growing up very fast.

ALBERT Compton Bropers, JR., 1s still in medical
school. He will graduate next year. His address is 1200

Kast Marshall Street, Richmond, Virginia.

O. H. PECKHAM 1s with the Oberjuerge Rubber Dis-
tributing Company, St. Louis, Missouri. He
says the only news he has to report is the
birth of a daughter, Helen Stryker Peck-
ham, on July 12, 1941.

1939

WaLLerR C. Harpy is salesman and as-

sistant treasurer of Laird Office Equipment
Company of Charleston, West Virginia.

SAUL R. WEINSIER is secretary-treasurer
ot Trageser Copper Works, Inc., doing noth-
Ing but defense work. His residence address
is 270 Corbin Place. srooklyn, New York.

CHARLES SEMPLE, JR., is with the Citi-
zen Union National Bank. Louisville, Ken-
tucky,

1940

Joun B. CLEVELAND, B.S., 1940, mem-
ber of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity, and
a - .

Phi Beta Kappa, has served since August,

 

1940, as Second Lieutenant, U.

(His mother writes to lea

». Marine Corps Re-
serves. sooth that he has

been ill all winter and still isn’t well enough to write).

1941

WittiAM B. Mize entered Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, in September,
1941; was elected secretary-treasurer of the freshman
class and initiated into Phi Beta Pi, medical fraternity
last March.

ROBERT HARDING ADAMS was married December 6,
1941 in Baltimore, Maryland, to Emily Daub, (William
and Mary student), of Pennsylvania. He is now a chem-
ist with the Trojan Powder Company near Sandusky on
Lake rie. His address is 7 Washington Apts., W. Wash-
ington Street, Sandusky, Ohio.

30B JUNGER, when his class letter was written in
April, was working for Columbia Pictures Corporation
in the Sales Accounting Department in New York. How-
ever, he hoped to get a call to the colors very soon. His
residence address is 680 West End Avenue, New York,

New York.

LELAND H. Lorp, after leaving Washington and Lee,
went to Parks Air College in East St. Louis, Illinois, for
two years, and graduated with a B.S. in Aeronautical En-
gineering. lor the past year and a half he has been em-
ployed as a draftsman and junior machine designer at the

Vega Aircraft Corporation in Burbank, California.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

. >
2 :
~ 3 - .
—— e* : ae
orem
7
,

ST

~~ y)
ay >
a

-

Mle westent ti a

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

Date .....
I enclose $.....0.......0......... for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.
Nore: Complete sets are available at this date in Mulberry and Green only.
Single plates in all colors are in stock at this date except as follows Mulberry, scenes
2, and 4; Green, scenes 2, and 4+; Blue, scenes 1, 2, 4, and 8.

One Complete set of eight plates [| | (or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS

1. Washington College.................... [ $:] 5.» Carnegie. Library 2-4...) wes, 3-08 we
Pe AOI oy fob Siac ined cng et 6. Doremus Gymnasium ................ [<5
3. Lee-Jackson Home...................-[. J 7 UE eer Peel saith cs Sakis. <> 2 Has Fite)
4 PEATIDUS WIM... Siteciccr<s iid. [sd 8. Washington College, 1857.........[ |
Check color choice: { | Blue [ | Green [ ] Mulberry
Ship plates to:
PTI hack i cies RET ICE AEs a danca tag ee awl ss A. Wp Cae |
Address............. Sere daa: sche Sal RM ibaa gue! 80 Saplad to REMMI CP TU, SN Gate lect aadibas -» --ltstte

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

