Alumni Magazine

i ah Rs

JULY, 1944 Arc
a) Se:

\) 3) 7 Balu
v.19, no. 4

ti

q:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cA Message from your
ALUMNI PRESIDENT

¢

These War years are hard on us all but
they are particularly hard upon institu-
tions like Washington and Lee. Your
Alma Mater has weathered every war
that your country has experienced and,
with the fine type of loyal support that
the alumni are displaying, Washington
and Lee will weather this one, too. Have

no fear of that.
KI WILLIAMS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, ‘27, Ho-
te! General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, '16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, ‘14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G. Young, °40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 2ist
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, '37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge
Sale, D4, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Company

Chicago, Illinois—William Fowler Symonds,
"33, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, III.

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, '07, 1426 Clay
Street

Charlotte, North Carolina—John L. Crist, ‘13,
Box 1045

Cieveland, Ohio—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Car]! V. Harris, ‘28, P. O.
Box 667

a ee C. H. Wilson, '24, P. O.

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320
East Grand Boulevard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, '21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miama, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,’29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

a Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,'25,

1211 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., ‘39,

ee Home Life Building

Lynchburg, bee ages Lynch Christian, '16,
Consolidated Coal Company

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
'37, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. er wakes
North "Br oad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, '30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,’31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jr., "29, 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
port Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg, West Virginia—Claude P. Light,
‘06, Court House

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
"34, 3422 Warden Drive

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

vee ‘sitee = P. Robinson, 10,
ark Buildi

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

eee Virginia—Judge Carleton E. Jew-
SY 1500 West 41st Street

Roanoke, cise oar Courtney King,’21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15,
505 Brady Building

St. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, ‘32,
5142 Westminster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntington, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer, '36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C.—William O. Burtner, ‘17,
2406 North Upton Street, Arlington, Vir-
ginia

Waynesboro, Virginia—William C. Raftery,'16,
373 Wayne Avenue

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIX JULY, 1944 No. 4-5
BOOP 6. 2i:, oe *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor................0..000.0.... Mary Barciay

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PUT OMMOHE BE NS renee Kr WiLttAms, 1915
SCCKEATY 5.506205, *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TPRESOPOR OE RE P. C. WuitLocK, 1929

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RocEr J. Bear, 1914
Joun L. Crist, 1913
Lr. (j.g.) RrcHarp T. Epwarps, 1933
Rosert P. Hogson, 1914
Ki Wixttams, 1915
Joun W. Drye, 1920
J. W. Miner, 1915
P. C. WuitLock, 1929

ae

Our Front Cover

This picture of Ki Williams was taken on May 27, 1944, on
the occasion of his being elected President of The Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, at a meeting of the Alumni
Board of Trustees on that date. Mr. Williams is an A.B. of
the Class of 1915. Since 1939 he has been Manufacturing Su-
perintendent of the DuPont Company, Waynesboro, Virginia.

* On leave of absence for the duration.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni: Past, Present and Future

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

[ HAVE RECEIVED an account of probably the most
moving alumni meeting of which I have ever heard.

us *K K

In the tense hours just before the great continental
invasion, one of the larger landing craft received a unit
of about two hundred American soldiers. There was noth-
ing to do but wait for a time. Conversation went quietly
on among officers and men. It developed that the Naval
officer in command of the boat, a captain of the troops,
and a first lieutenant of the troops, were all graduates of
Washington and Lee.

* 3K K

There is, to be sure, “a tie that binds” all fellow
alumni of any college. We like to believe, and I feel a
genuine assurance to that effect, that the sense of the
Washington and Lee experience draws men into imme-
diate and unique kinship. Over and over I have received
notes that tell in one form or another the story of that
landing craft.

x XK K

Never in college days, I dare say, did one of these
hundreds of men dream that the Washington and Lee
comradeship would be a matter of their participation in
circumstances so terrible, circumstances that indeed out-
run the fancy of even the most energetic mind. But if
the circumstances had to come, we are gratified that the
comradeship was acknowledged, appreciated, enjoyed.

x XK br

These men, and the hundreds reported in the class
notes of this issue, and all the others scattered into almost
fantastic diffusion by the strange mandates of duty, all
of these men will think and talk of the Washington and
Lee they knew and loved. But they think also, and they
write me, with much concern about the Washington and

bo

Lee that is to be in the years that are to follow, years
that never again will be entirely like those before this up-
heaval of world-wide war.

K K XK

To these men I feel an obligation to give, again and
again if they will forgive iteration, the assurance that the
essential Washington and Lee will not and must not
change, whatever be the external course of society. If we
lose that essential quality, the reason for existence has
ceased to be compulsive.

bs XK K

The name of this institution is a suggestion—no, it 1s
a guarantee—that Washington and Lee is built upon
foundations and is not a bit of pedagogical opportunism,
perhaps I should say flotsam, to drift around upon every
changing current of educational whim or educational com-
petition. It is necessary, of course, to know what is foun-
dation and what is superstructure that is capable of wise
modification; but it is the primary imperative to know
that there is the foundation, to know that fact and have
enduring respect for it.

* * *K

The foundation is essentially character. It is indi-
vidualized character, confessing the dignity and the prom-
ise of the separate persontlity. It is character of the spirit
and character of the mental fortitude and character of
the social obligation. Reverence and honor are the ex-
pressions of the spirit, the capacity for hard work and
the candor to face reality are of the mind, a deep concern
for the human values is 1n the social obligation,

7 * **

The alumni of the future must be, as the alumni of
the past have been

 

and never more so than in these des-
perate days—the heirs of the allegiance and the faith that
were in Washington and in Lee.

Fig a ie ae

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Items of Current Campus News

Washington and Lee is now well established on the
quarter system. The arrangement in effect will enable
students who wish to do so to cover one and a third of a
former session’s work within a calendar year and thus
cut down appreciably on the time required to earn a de-
gree. It is still possible, however, for a student to carry
work during only the regular session and drop out: for
the summer.

The summer quarter that ended the first of August
showed probably the smallest enrollment ever registered
at Washington and Lee since the War Between the States,
with sixty men attending. Of this number seven were
freshmen who entered in June. The next quarter that
begins August 21 will have approximately twenty fresh-
men entering. In view of the fact that when boys are
now seventeen the majority of them are entering one of
the army or navy programs, we are glad to have this
number to carry on student traditions during the war.
The total enrolment for the next quarter will probably
be something under one hundred.

* ok *

Of the seven freshmen who entered in June, three
had close alumni connections. Matt Paxton, III, 1s the
son of Matt Paxton, Jr., Class of 1918; Bob Patterson
is the son of Houston Patterson, Class of 1919; Bob
Needham is a brother of Bill Needham, Class of 1939.
Rickie Burton, Class of 1917, will have a boy entering in
the freshman group that begins work August 21.

eg

A great deal of the time of the members of the Admin-
istration is at present being devoted to plans in connec-
tion with work for the veterans who may be expected to
take advantage of the opportunity offered under the GI
bill. Even with the overwhelming majority of the Service
men still being occupied with the major task of winning
the war, numerous inquiries are being received from men
who have never attended Washington and Lee as well as
from our own alumni who left the campus to enter the
armed forces before completing the work for their de-
grees. A letter written by President Gaines to the parents
of all Service men who have attended Washington and
lee during the past ten years has brought many responses
of appreciation and items of interest relative to the Ser-
vice careers of their sons. A letter has also been sent out
by the Dean of Students to all alumni of the Class of 1938
and subsequent classes, calling attention to the GI bill
and sending a summary of the provisions of the bill.

There is being prepared at the present time a summary
of the various courses and degree programs that Wash-
ington and Lee will be prepared to offer to veterans, with
particular emphasis on the program for men who wish
to complete their academic work with as little delay as
possible.

* K *

Looking to future classes, the Alumni Office sent out
with all Class Agents letters this spring a card, asking
for the names of the children of the alumni. From the
cards received a file is being prepared that will be used in
keeping in touch with sons of alumni as they approach
the age to enter college. (Presumably the feminine side
of the register will have to be used to furnish candidates
to lead Fancy Dress. )

se

The School for Special and Morale Services continues
to expand in size, although it has not been necessary to
take over any appreciable amount of additional facilities
to care for the increased enrollment. Around seven hun-
dred students are now attending each 28-day course, with
a permanent staff of approximately two hundred officers,
enlisted men, and WAAC’s. In connection with the SSMS
it is interesting to note that in the more than twenty classes
that have gone through the School only two classes did not
have one or more Washington and Lee alumni enrolled.
the age to enter college.

“ae. kee.

Some of the younger alumni followers of intramural
sports who can remember scrambling up the muddy bank
between Wilson Field and the Alumni Field above, will
be glad to know that there is now a broad flight of con-
crete stairs connecting the two fields. The installation
was made necessary by the almost constant use through-
out the day of the Alumni Field by the expanded classes
of the Athletic and Recreation branch of the SSMS.

a * *

Frank J. Gilliam, ‘17, former Dean of Students of
Washington and Lee was comissioned on January 11,
1943, as Major in the U.S. Army and assigned to the
administrative staff of the School for Special Service at
Washington and Lee. He has received an honorable dis-
charge from this service and is now again serving as
Dean of Students at the University. Rupert N. Latture,
‘15, who served as Dean of Students in the absence of
Mr. Gilliam, is now Registrar of Washington and Lee
University. These changes become effective Aug. 1, 1944.

[3]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of July 31, 1944

Note: This list of 114 alumni in service comprises
the ninth published addition to the list of Washington
and lee men in service, published in the May, 1942,
Magazine. Washington and Lee now has 2,888 alumni
listed in the armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about ser-
vice men save their class and branch of service, and indi-
cating whether or not they are commissioned officers.
However, the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other
pertinent data, such as actual rank, station, permanent
home address, or other address from which mail will be
forwarded, special activities, type of service or training,
etc. The permanent home address is most important as
service addresses change so rapidly.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possi-
ble with our alumni in this time of stress, and any 1n-
formation concerning alumni in service will be greatly
appreciated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
A, Army of the United States ; AAF, Army
Air Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air
Corps; MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
American Field Service; MMS, United States Merchant
Marine Service. An asterisk (*) following the above
symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

as follows:

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

ATM CrSON Pre erick OREO, 31 vin cickicsciindsatdnheaansuccterccsudyatdibere veces A
PEC RIOE ESOT Ba iki ahs as ts itso cao gaveahivddp clench de dubenindwahe uae A*
PO OG ANE cs Men cunh ciples cooked dachtiny A oticeeesschikenaceadtoanlierdintcasepeel A
POET se PEE WF 5 ad his co ccetnes agaatetaasoenasscitat jdadk tas scseseacadnniaber occcdenoaatd A
Bate, John T., 2] s Kasia acme UeNh ds OMe niad uachbesthcecndg bgpasenreot Loewe ties A*
ERAT, ER ODG sg eA Bdncedsasennds cnapiostagusieuniocpetowsebabontasictil AAF* **
SRSUERENAM hc BADELIR® SUMMURTUR, - SHU. cc hina cesccaprbcccartnaney sunsnecedvietoesscoesicaaiele N*
TAME 3 RE MihOOs Seep esacena de chyna douacksdacucbisadeddcokcsndpneschivoves N*
DOSER PRTIGE AE PARIRIINT; GOA sinicounsandasgiveas cored Blisceaseidancedauepetrie N
SEP Wi MERE WV REO R  G anne sty adsis ckeaningasacie tasavctdarcccomens N*
ELECT. VV ATES LOS VV TAREE 90s oh ss ona> a Wash pide pabhoiocsvdacsevts scdesbtnlechccseccd A
EAT ORGR ES GREE Se ci. We Rasilesodadicszdsccs dadhatwidharssacgs aneaddacsmins A*
Buchholz, Donald Murray, Sea sideus iiabtduamadbesalaatnas sae manbesbapenctnnlts casa A
estes, VV aNiaaie  Doieha FF a iia assent Gace ke Ga hecodeeesiecischosaccel A
Butterworth, Charles Arthur, = ssh dasassbinkuas ced cescoeeain biastabed AAF*
Carson; LA Wrenc€ Emory, "90. Sisiscecer cissicniecssccscsscece ease ean A
Ca ees Ri See Tae isis en dake eden tenn ccd coche th cca seass Sk N*

 

* Indicates commissioned officer.
** Killed in training or combat.
*** Officially missing in action.

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

CN RRS BS ssintsicecs boncsn udicncece tenbenadasWvendébuayetenedaabel A
CSET, FALMER PU RETIRE. ZO co cekivcebyoaicccaceavedoospsadbespececehendivndaedt N*
SET, SOCAN ING UE IMEEDL ATs. Pbisscldscashanpacdescshcodgebvedsnccianbigensvbbeed A
Chapin, Robert Selden, a Dias and ch cae icecwaudiaaadiiatensss eabiaaane ned AAF
Cai Ree SORE Ese - OU Sore nds cdicnsovecducovasacunepitbelanapscccunpievsored A*
Cluxton, Horace Hayes, i is schcils usta bunnies Coated as kocty esac kiinss tackle CG
OIE Fen Ri sinus ona cabiehavouscodees caucspoancenshsaoencna¥abatnetaly N*
TE ee RU Mo ans can os snd sudan yacooatienen vcd abulltamscccecas bones A*
CORSET MoO i StI MO A, consi suds cee snesvisecvandnbccpsepvoctbantoddoenicds A
RCN rn en a ee a ee A*
COUR TASA REPRE OIE 5 Bis de iSicsceccicwsansdvaccoccives dcsecausesicdbertoiea’ A
EIR YVIOOD Ve Pee Fe OL EOC, - 1 beg Poa cksdolsscovusechsntcnodpsabcpeineeclpnaal A
RRGie TEIN, UN nr st ahi eccs beeen socckstocckhondddectscwwgeoseal evan keaamaibads N
AUIS! CL TOGINOE TT OTB OM isc cineitcoegun tenes cadad ley avoaicicnesvabicanhemectiounl N*
CPS IO TF se Ee sacs, wipe saudedois audcce aapaveeedodeemaala AAF*
FUE TIOGR, BPR ee WaMIMEUEI LR 6-05 Gd; cide s0s cs acncnscotsciaccrqalecechscuemsemests A
Fe ichlaaty. “TOSS Oe, OA is. 3... -nasaorSavccevusciseleivbadssntaoel A*
PS OGONN, Ea OED, SE UGA pli ictn cho Albntirgcgskudsavhnsnsdboss pn tddeleackceains N*
Pe WRLGE POE AR at ie dceeick sdsclince onestek tas’ ksacchscledacatanstasteedan N*
Pim, V anee Ameren, P85 ricci ccs cacks dhckscnapaness sschcanabocsdcaghcseacenn A
Corimore,- ROD Grt Cate Ei as ae hnakcacheccasscdecccdcd<duiasssccStacuakocadas A
Hampton, ' Wy tliam MICCUMIOGE: "ZS. ssicccncccsiapedsdodcacccacondbecand AAF*
PRET 5-2 RUBE Es. 2 en sar eccacta iil sen imac oooad Gaede ute ee A*
Harwood, Alexander Gilliam, IIT, °35.0..............cccsssssssososcseed AAF
Platten, Loewen TERY; 7 cplasbvigicansitslcscth dxcsbsanthcbaonteza N*
ABU, .CHMrICe Ke Cl6ey 5 S71 x. cshatss nv dasece a ieasthoveg oad hea A
BEGE -FRODORE Cl OGG SSF; chcpa tetas nck teo aston dvccasschasnomndsaiiiaetene A*
EL ORTOOK SS POUL Fa. <bker cls: dikdeenishhahaeccbiessiaehaVnocuvatinescn ekcedtetntl A*
Fokion -Gowery Tommie Tle SOL iisisihercvesnivsasokcatcntsavebilsineicevdictt N
FEGIDAS.; FROCES DEREBRB Me cic chssosvishent bake sts bc niAsisavadaea ne A*
Patent; EL GWRIS 5 MAOT Os MCE suit snatkssccondetbemncpaccostadhecbicldebccsnsiareel AAF
BSelty, Josep: BMeridan : 44.» esi Sascccdebcesccacecensecsadepobeansicvcieciouske N*
RAMUTIOT, KOM ATICS Ph sg: SSavisiakidediscccecad bn vmnbiotniatdatccedsebonal AAF
Lawrence, Alexander Killough, ’35..............cccssssscssssssssssssecses MC*
BOHR) AOOOG SC AAETOAIE, <} 8 gs glia sh ccpewacockzenthcguladsdivs cascada ceekoliok MC
TAOY CG, ESCEMOG BOGS PA? oii sscstoics adeece lasts Asteaokateadarka cadesdoanbcsk MC
LAVOICK, | FOG VU MIESGy eo hscbe coitus chccseverecoatoubo sh tacks codaleintaisietaaeal AAF*
BE CESOE, FOR, a7 dickcadsadcctd oh tasb eho acotncvecpatesdnstoaibbotgeeetiamnalaci ata A
NECL Mee. Fl enry -Morrigs oie sie tase eects A
McLaughlin, Richard James, Fan ss bid~ yea ioasabasecnay ines te kieaesalitinoes A
Dametett, “Wiaei learn: BG, 2 oi ean oc ame aie Sah N*
PEAY CE; FOR TARE, 510s sis~ Avni diunaa buses ide iatlatanta dl svistties MC
Minter, Gedrise Lockett, Jr; ST cccsasscessitaccnvedectvtajaartsocBsecssccsase N*
Matchen, -F atricic: TiMrOld, | 34. so. 4: <ccicaspocsdseatiscsaaos cabled <Aecnanes N*
BOOK, PLEA F000, 238 isehikiG A cians soci csectabes ean, A namens A
WE OPCGOGS a Toeg 0 oF? 1 Gani dio crcl Mabie oan N*
Mutims, Patricle Stephens, Jr j.°39. A. .0sicicbscasthivcocsdsdanvcrnsstacactoen N*
Murphy, Paul- Joseph Bruno, Jt. ;’ 4G. isiscisisscbeccctacscacdondeacanugcences&s A
IN Cts UsstOr, BS Wik, SAR iii caseeckivgss socacptckductsiecssdh baa mbomebnea orate) A
PUIG COINS, < We een Pe Oe ee a ee eaten dcr bebo N
Patterson; Fenty Johthsoi Sic citi citxccccochactbeiniitavsiotseaeil A
PRU, SECULY <TMINOB, ob Rse1 cs Crispdemesdetencdalistccctecibse Lede dtriciaduahostce ses N
Pitts, Fie OW FAL AS dei cicletsaen cs aL cen a te cnt N*
Elements, Te. 20S is asain oh icici aelniancce ncaa ideo N
Powers, Robert Wo aihkiai aan oascdovscepathawebabhebecekecrvetoctes N*
Prater, GCharlep: A lwith;:? Sis sitvssestassocscksceslescnapteccnuto eckc avis ccenowosed A*
Pric€, Dawid Georwe | Sev inncsisBs acticadicuistetebateitstsinsibinceoccstescnucs N*
Ramey, Medlord Grove, > Hoisssscnusscveodvesbitacstacdieccntbebedschoiesicocsad A..*
Reasor, Charles Havyeden= °S6i ci. 2. van ccekes sles ticateowicady chorssssnsone N*

[4]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

RODOLUS ORs: Pes PV Ss DE. 8G gece ccdinsctansncksbeo ytd cchbebasteondebevd prevdgant N
Rete eee. (VY Ts aets i MICONE,,. ek sp nace ton isesds cc aca dinazbes'tssbea nds teacbectieed A*
SaVere, Vy GRY THROES esoscd cincscetatnidiacdride dpa A
SCG, | MEV TO FE GE BA was sdekacicnedals gisciadces ccdinabpndctntiotete iateckga! A *
Scletall. : Tem: a VAT, Be caked dae sgs eh ccieachinss 2 ecco A
SS PERCE, Ue CACO Eas) Sedacpdsn cubicle sda cis dhn ois kokeadte ch scebidespacscssaseaiain N*
SHSLEINM FLIDTOMBS TOBCDING. BG. 5.0 .cckcc sch toes deedeleccy ined eapan avedadunancnses N*
SUTOTU, FLEETS BAM EID Zid? dancenth Romisscoctecivoptas io declétapwlsn, AFS
Sigvartaen, Fierbert  VmmOwe, “SPs vasescicocses cient Wiel Sacvakbcectperce dines N*
Sri verateaa Ts Tac Fe GF itiw ss cccpogiabocaires socks ee osteo ccbactakecusest N
Srrate hs SUE OS SUITS SIT Anca cudinbeccnisacgeden chibbaatclocasevcoveatane AAF
Sristth | Ray Sarak FG scans cai, hess ccokactdvetansscaascesciacepuad AAF*
Spacer) BL OST eaves hataacdsascsnsieisisncsik adineteeos ce balae ae Masekerees A
SPELT NS SMOR NEES GCM os Gkchunpuses Devan ces onavealh euBib kare sedhetnadiooaabec cls acts N*
Sproul; Archibald: Alexander, TT SFisS5. askeccbalenseccostesbeeensecss A*
Stepherison;: Cisrene “TGs “4G. oi sais tectiswiepasancapcooccchsed ones cekekascssets N
Stevens, Stuart Oliphant, Ms lvrustest dolvcoks ce aeaivicc thattis deen’ AAF
Stierie,: EMC DGS ab aiscchcahccducdoss otecelccleahevedhascsiaiolacketteacl A
T Gee ES cs caesickicas Nes scien casianbthich nae eee digedencete nates ta A

Name and Class Branch of Service

DEP ATTY,, VV BLACE PI COVES Gi i veckcnteesciacacscoschocckeacbanbesstntocevGacesouteoens A
A OM CHiI SES Tyash FE IL 97 a als vo escdebsccanccabscivcvdtacresactechel AAF* **
Towler, William Jennings, Tt ad en oaks Beaks fir ae eel ee MC
SPOOR MO ick dos secorgacia closab ovens shave a Gctiecac teehee A
SORES Fame e OL OICT EE: ee cks case cisoccsadcohsbrace Wists deeteetd aibess N
RARE ASAGEE F PECMTIEE LTE Oy vcreaesidcadstidotclal wblbiccen nicotine N
LTA NUR eID Mo oc aE iol clic es ocons eivednbas caminks N*
Tushifigham, Robert Fedward;?37 siii.<ccccsc.cccccccocccesccdavesscteoves MMS
Pe APNE SAAN Me erasicary cco tiintyueush ioudthtorIoiniatiwicnnshacvsonanebvuteaoantten A*
WU enn SURO APE TES i oth is cceccbasekvevcnungs tetadeucs che A*
WEIL FEEL ced OU REMI ERE By POD sic eniisnie Sais cok sonddunidgyincets Be detecdiannerpt N*
VU BINIS EPRI TO OtRO0s 75S os ico cecicescdtuecsedesnchciree eee N*
ME CHIRCCTT ROPE; os ecikies pi hitinipMabexéscdd Renitidberckducdeced A
PV Ce RROD els, a inte sags cv nw tapas nk in pice adessbdeuiahtie neem A
WY EE AOD Ee os, chica sane sassawchcdecs udhcheccisdounccebbuetveaal A*
WY ADOT, FOI. CT aus pelviceses had poseathsancantacs basebngta ld ekeveiabecta N*
We AA TURTT CWE, STAs oh lek A ooikscvicduccdednchiacdek tees Mocnoudccoceabe N*
WY Cte, PROT OE ES WE OE Us Piscrhcricsocechantacdebaleleits acbeveecoshbdeccdasswenieeenel A
CATAL HS, PA SUUEC RIE UUD, (TE) ps: Dlink scinischacvsbeesdoansssebeitrisocdlevioteies cacti N

 

RRS

4 oS ees ee = os ae $55

 

Be

ee. ads SSNS
Sa OE wae

Student Army Training Corps at Washington and Lee in 1918. How many of them can you identify?

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Memorial to Dean Moreland

At the Meeting of Washington and Lee Alumni, Incor-
porated, held at the University on May 27, 1944, Dr. L. W.
Smith and Mr. Clayton E. Williams were appointed a com-
mittee of two to draw up resolutions on the death of Dean
Moreland. The resolution is to be made a permanent record
in the minutes, to be published in The Alumni Magazine, and
a copy sent to Mrs. Moreland.

On March 10, 1944, in the death of William Haywood
Moreland, the Alumni Association lost one of its most loyal
and devoted members. Mr. Moreland was a student in the
Law School and received his LL.B. in 1906. Although he
spent only two years as a student, he knew what it meant
to be on the campus of Washington and Lee.

For many years it was one of his duties to explain to
the Freshman class the Honor System, and no one was
better qualified to do so, as he was a living example of its
principles.

Mr. Moreland came back to the University in 1914 as
professor of Law and was Dean of the School from 1923
until his death.

An able administrator, a teacher of wide reputation, a
friend of athletics when unalloyed by professionalism, we
have lost in his death one whose place in the University will
be difficult to fill.

We offer this memorial to him from his fellow alumni.

L. W. Smith
C. E. Williams

Service Casualties

1937

2nd Lt. Emil E. Tomchik was killed in the crash of a
Flying Fortress on July 17, 1943. The accident occurred in
Logan, New Mexico, while on a routine flight. The entire
crew of nine perished.

1941

Ensign Samuel Givens McFadden, Naval Air Corps, was
killed in the crash of his torpedo plane at Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, on March 2, 1943. Following is an excerpt from the
first letter he wrote to his parents after entering Washington
and Lee in the fall of 1937: “I have never enjoyed myself so
completely, nor had a better time in my life. This is the finest
place in the world. I feel like yelling ‘Rah, Rah’ for sheer
joy. I met President Gaines today. I have never known a man
who is so completely a gentleman, scholar, and all-round fine
fellow as he is. Tonight we went to Lee Chapel, and Presi-
dent Gaines talked to us about our privilege of being able
to learn, as compared with boys of other countries. You could
have heard a pin drop. There followed a talk on traditions of
the campus and the honor system. Write often, but I’m not
homesick.”

2nd Lt. Paul Emil Gourdon, Jr., U.S. Army, was killed in
action on July 11, 1944, in France. His home address was
340481 Eighty-First Street, Jackson Heights, New York.

1943

Lt. Ross Beason, Jr., U.S. Army Air Corps, was killed in
an airplane crash in North Africa on April 15, 1944.

1945
Lt. John McDowell King, Naval Air Corps, Pilot of a P-38

fighter plane, was killed on May 4, 1944, in Italy, in the crash
of a plane. No further details were given.

William C. Hood, of Ashland, Kentucky, was reported
killed in action in Italy, February 2, 1944.

Sgt. Joseph Overton Stagg, Jr., U.S. Army Air Corps,
was killed in action over Burma on February 25, 1944. He was
a radio operator on a transport and was attached to the Sec-
ond Troop Carrier Squadron. He entered the Army the latter
part of November, 1942, finished training and left for India
the early part of November, 1943. He remained there until
his death. He was awarded, posthumously, the Purple Heart,
Citation of Honor from General Arnold, and a Memorial from
the President. His home was in Danville, Kentucky.

1946

Flight Officer William Carter Shinn, of Ashland, Ohio,
was killed in July, 1944, in the crash of a four-engined bomber
near Rapid City, South Dakota.

In Memoriam
1893
Charles D. Forrer died in 1943. His home was in Parkers-
burg, West Virginia.
1894
Lowndes Calhoun died November 9, 1943. His home was
in Atlanta, Georgia.
1896

George Gordon Stiles, of Rome, Georgia, died August 5,
1941.

1897
Albert George, of Knoxville, Tennessee, died June 8, 1944.
1898
Edward John Parrish, of Norfolk, Virginia, died in Au-
gust, 1943.
1905

Malcolm D. Campbell died June 18, 1944. His home was
in Lexington, Virginia.

Major Samuel Charles Harrison, United States Army,
Retired, died in March, 1944.

1906

Robert Eubanks Witt died in the Jackson Memorial Hos-
pital, Lexington, Virginia, on May 10, 1944.

1908

Thomas Russell Cather, B.A. 1908, LL.B. 1910, died on
May 14, 1944, in Winchester, Virginia.

1911

John Nevin Kilmer, LL.B. 1911, of Martinsburg, West
Virginia, died June 2, 1944.

Harry H. Harnsberger, of Staunton, Virginia, died June 19,
1944.
1913

Thornton Whitney Allen died, after a brief illness, on
July 30, 1944. He was head of the Thornton Allen Company,
music publishers, 37 West 44th Street, New York City, pub-
lishers of the Washington and Lee Swing, and many other
well-known college songs.

1918

James E. Cantrill, of Georgetown, Kentucky, died June 29,

1944.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1923
Oliver R. Daves, of Roanoke, Virginia, died April 6, 1944.

D. P. McKinnon, of Miami, Florida, died December 5, 1943.

1930
L. M. Cottingham, of Houston, Texas, died April 27, 1943.

1932

Edward T. Weeks, Jr., died March 27, 1943. Surviving
him are his widow, a son now nearly five years old and a
daughter 3. His home was at New Iberia, Louisiana.

1937

Edgar B. Ruff was fatally injured in an industrial accident
at Northfork, West Virginia, on May 19, 1943. (In the May
issue of The Alumni Magazine, this was erroneously reported
as Richard Harrison Ruff. Richard Harrison Ruff is a mem-
ber of the Class of 1933, and is now in the Army, stationed
at or near Pearl Harbor.)

What One Alumnus Did...

One Alumnus sent, in response to the letter from the Class
Agent for the 1914 Law Class, a Series F $500.00 War Bond.
From the letter accompanying the bond, the following para-
graphs are quoted:

“With further reference to your letter of April 20, 1944,
and the 1914 Law Class of Washington and Lee, I have finally
matured my plans to the extent of enclosing you herewith a
Series F Bond, D446541F, in the maturity value of $500.00,
in the name of Washington and Lee University. Please put
this to the credit of our class in your returns for this year,
if it is not too late.

“The enclosed represents a partial fulfillment of an old
ambition of mine to give back to the College the difference
between what my education cost and what I paid. I got the
figures from the Treasurer several years ago and have had
them constantly before me, and I admit something of a sense
of gratification in making this first payment on account. There
are so many things, of a spiritual and inspirational nature,
for which I am indebted to the College, and which I can never
repay, that I am glad to pay something on account of what
i can repay.”

 

 

A brief reunion somewhere in Southwest China was held recently by two members of the Class of 1932, Major Donald

C. Thompson, Infantry, left of Jacksonville, Florida, and Major Randolph T. Shields, Jr., Marine Corps, of Winchester,

Virginia. Major Thompson is with the Y-Force Operations Staff, and Major Shields is with the Medical Section of

the Z-Force Operations Staff. Beth of their outfits are training Chinese troops for combat operations against the Jap-
anese in China.

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Standing of Alumni Class Fund

Class Contributors Amt.

As of August 18, 1944

Class Agent Class Contributors Amt.

 

 

Class Agent

*1867-91...... BW sanctus DG ick vesinocacsendscab henlinedistad Alumni Office S919 Rae PRE Ses cokacdpiisvsutenseanniae W. F. Barron
PPE! sci cas MG ek isc) PTO i i aetioantakomes Dr. E. L. Green FO TO 2Oe A 5. ce Dasentersees DU oiccscnsastuangebn’ Thomas McA. Stubbs
PORTO O = = acids Sie edie LO IN is-5teacnsdchencghtedboseipetiomaes B.A.Judd ***1920-L...... Gokasia neces ERM e ccctvanerstveoishictent L. Berkeley Cox
OORT BO4 | + Ut VP Leiiior De Pai ias seach so cass eemaien John M. Graham ***1921-A......25............ A heinick ony tciee ssh Jchn L. Patterson
O0I89S >i... Dihidosovis BO ANU ccagat aiigaseeaet overvetetben John P. Walker PR II aR aja: kbeins missin PAR cpistihibncapchiemseeccinae R. C. Wood
PRET SIG bo ccess Don bahin NAO, atic; prnadeteitgothcabnnsin? FW RCC POR ZZ AAG 2B ccicicsicces Ota Ocdbicnacctnocasseps Troy C. Musselwhite
1897... Bissecteates. OR oii ses. costes Wm. J. Lindenberger b9eeelaa. « Sod ia see Mae Mibactds arth Gkaiiseotelaaen William E. Neblett
Per S < caegged Btpiteethsxate DONT casey cpucktteh ath genns Edward A. O’Neal = ***1923-A......21........00 RRB discs cdchinks bineetaiiniokes D. R. Snively
**1899 ___...... EE OO shes ies soncudisnncoteonle Dr. S. C. Lind 1923-L...... BA Gindss Si ie nacisnnateoiss E. W. Poindexter
S90B.? s-cya503 Sabisdicyeles LAU lor anascventeanes’ Dr. S. B. McPheeters POR Aiiicc ok Lipiscséceshe PRISMA: sys csc dap dp desesd ivasadigachep len W. G. Sale
hones; ree 27 GES SG, secirscoskieans Matthew Page Andrews = ***]924-T....... Reta cde SERMON Ais sue ohacsd tnsical Reade secs R. G. Whittle
wiped >, Bear ee EDipeaivecsoes PEP PU seccvsitosnrsergmacsivess W. Dewey Cooke = ***1925-A......: Sd Aisiieechas 497.00.5.2.,;:..<: Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway
FPH190S 2.10: 20....cceeses 470.00...ceceeosCescoeacevens Rev. Cary R. Blain 1925-L....... Pers sseeices OPO ind ss.ddaccnsaad W. A. McRitchie
PO. Sates EL aigaisects RIOR S nie vsesdastbougtnowtedgnedeanases J. B. Akers 96 ss ee at O64 SG. bo Shee ticdd Thomas P. Foley
***1905 0. 13.......0000 78.08.....cesessessesesseeens David A. Bradham — #**1927-A.....20...c.ccc00 PEP cgi h ec icsce: J. C. Wilbourn
***1906 oo. 26.5 BOE piss tus cose saacts Henry C. Tillman 1927-L....... Bees POG tee George F. Maynard
PAE UII ;:: . tale Oasicsevsocke Bela sicistoarapenagcokongaoucanl EK. Clyde Hoge te FID” <> te STR he be i F. M. P. Pearse, Jr.
TOBA: 5B. ccpediees OS cha covcsabestictsteginote Horace W. Phillips ***1928-T....... eee RIES oR ta se ons G. Oldham Clarke
***1908-L....... Gartccupoabos WE EQ i. inning sidesenthsnbnibdestceagess W. J. Jackson BOD B38 i OR. fe ten om Lt. (j.g.) Frank Parker
GODS AES 2c cies QUA Daas uals Dr. John W. Claudy 1990s 35s et 20,0058 cig eer’ Philip’: -Becker
1909-Liesees Seeseeeeseees 25.00...s.csessesecsesssserssnssneesnees L. J. Boxley 19S0P Ass eileen DODD ik rss doacic caegeteil Kenneth L. Keil
Fakes Osckicccares Pa ei maatatindcaaetets sikeveiss Wyatt C. Hedrick Ca eae tes, WON RR Samuel W. Rayder
***1910-L...... Praikttacts TBS Aiicisscas be kssskietnntndages Walter M. Hood *#*193] Sea Rea te SP. oe Frank T. Bready
PETE hiss ose Odessieskecle, POMP Etaadectcipveutinesichagathsbeies F. P. Guthrie 047099" he -9R. oo: SG OR oi ma Sone os nee Wm. C. Mulligan
ST Diss sc. k Osi rdenne SLO... sstapevebocsevscrvalapeeses Luther G. Scott 19322> Seto RN RS Eek oe ar eee Alumni Office
PONSA peted Pinsecinsycen Pas enith cscbenncn cvcngrahe <ah tipunnaes Dan Owen 103950 9) 25 Deer. ft 4k ae Luther Violett, Jr.
1912-L....... Oise cagicons CRE IIS occa geeooasanckospCatainads Russell B. Wine = ### 19 33-T_...... 3......ce00ee eR Se Rie a J. J. Framptom, Jr.
OEE de Parental A cssecsaecton BT ig te dhe esssccewtsn bia cate anata! C. C. Moore ¥*##1]934 aes eS SO a a ola hater R. L. Buffington
*¥#1913-L......15...0cce000 83.00.......ceeeeeeeeeereees Henry B. Goodloe — **#*1935-A.....18 ccc TOGO cit tected ui William Schuhle
#¥#1914-A......23..cs.sceeees 277 .S0....srecsecsreecssreerserers Henry N. Barker OSS on 945 cae BO aes nntcchoee W. W. Fowlkes
1914-L....... Siieere Pu lies sekbuiptoendionta tania R. L. Beuhring 1096 A. th ee CIN ee pte “yt Rev. W. T. Lawton
1915-A......22......0e000e 298.00...cssssererereeseeeseeees Charles R. Beall 1OSG ase Do tiscost BOO a2 us case ootcaee W. E. Tilson
1915-L....... Mc Glk she se cnet enyecauich teeratniens J. D. Trimble HOA 2G 102.08 cs ee L. V. (Jimmie) Butler
FECT GIGR AL, isi ZS scienesesene 219.00.......000c0s0000: Harrison P. Magruder 1937-8 Ss. Bacctcaki. SOP. ioc. ne ees Edwin M. Marks
P99 1916 - Fonsi. BA eccsvecacns PROG e ois bids const patektionesahon Earl B. Rose W058 cus Pais a SORE RS rane Earl J. (Kit) Carson
FT Fc Picsn siete Boasecsans vis Met eabetos hart Dr. Charles W. McNitt *#19039 ....° Rs sede BEA OR 8 ot wt Charles H. Semple, Jr.
#¥H1917-Lycsee Dosneceoseses 71.00........csccecscseeresereeserees *+Alumni Office ***1940 a5: SAS sk Secs Gilbert Gardner
#91918 2. 29 crcecerere 227. DD... rcseesserescrseees Matthew W. Paxton — #*1941-A....45... BERR oivisi ocL ste Paul D. Brown
*1941-L...... DP tabsbctess RID sgivtsnsSynattedad cokers Peter S. Barrow
*More contributors than final report, January 1, 1944. TED occ ie sksrevcncosh CTI oan es ccanddetecsaccedacd. deat R. T. Vaughan
** More money than final report, January 1, 1944. ***1943-etc....89............ SAMs ince kis neces os William B. Guthrie
*** More contributors and more money than final report, Non-alumnus........... 250.00
January 1, 1944. —————
+Sam Silverstein, Class Agent for 1917-L, died on April 1, 1944 Total......1483......$14,559.72

Note: The above report of the 1944 Alumni Fund rep-
resents the largest number of contributors and the larg-
est amount of money received in any year since the Class
Agent Plan was started in 1933. The final totals for 1943,
which was the previous high mark, showed that 1409 con-
tributors gave $12,301.75. This year’s fund does not close
until January 1, 1945.

[8 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1879

1889

 

J. E. Allen lives at 404
Twenty-Second Street, Vir-

Class notes in the five issues of THE ALUMNI MAG-

Dr. James Q. Chambers

gives his address as 3614

ginia Beach, Virginia. He AZINE, beginning with October each year, are com- Holmes Street, Kansas City,
expresses his devotion to piled from the letters received by the Class Agents dur- Missouri.

Washington and Lee and ing the previous spring and summer. In this issue we

his best wishes for her con- are using as many notes as possible about alumni serving ih

tinued prosperity and useful- with the armed forces, feeling that much of this in- Judge F. M. Hudson
ness, formation will be out of date by the fall. Home ad- asked if we would be wil-

1886
Dr. Jchn V. McCall re-

dresses are given in most cases with the hope that
letters will be written to them and forwarded promptly.

ling to accept some of the
important briefs or judicial
reports he has prepared in

 

 

 

ceived his M.A. from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1886. He
was in the ministry for forty seven years, in Texas and Ok-
lahoma. He is now retired and living in his boyhood home,
Weatherford, Texas. He recalls many pleasant incidents of
his school days in Lexington.

W. J. Humphreys gives no news of his activities. His ad-
dress is Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

1887

Robert Lee Hunter, 7343 Westmoreland Avenue, Univer-
sity City, St. Louis, Missouri, was a charter member of the
Phi Delta Theta fraternity at Washington and Lee. His son,
Joseph Hunter, is an A.B. of 1940,

W. T. Armstrong is a member of the law firm of Arm-
strong, Cranford, Barker and Bedford, American National
Insurance Building, Galveston, Texas.

Dr. Brown Craig Patterson and his wife are now living
at Route 2, Staunton, Virginia, after serving as missionaries
of the Presbyterian Church in China for over a quarter of a
century. Two of their sons are graduates of Washington and
Lee. He says he has a warm place in his heart for the Uni-
versity and the men who have been fitted for life there. He
and Mrs. Patterson and their two sons were under Japanese
control in China for a year, but got away before the Japanese
could legally put them in a concentration camp.

1888

Henry W. Holt, Judge of the Supreme
Court of Appeals, lives in Staunton, Virginia.

Edwin W. Kaminski lives at Georgetown,
South Carolina. He says: “Whenever I hear
from you it brings back pleasures of old as-
sociations. I am glad to hear that your con-
tributions are increasing and that the Uni-
versity is carrying out its old traditions of
doing good work.”

Captain Greenlee Letcher, who has had a
rather prolonged illness, is now well and ac-
tive again. He is still practicing law in Lex-
ington, Virginia. His son, John Seymour, ’27,
is now a Lieutenant Colonel, serving in the
South Pacific area. wy hit

 

   

lieu of a class letter. This
offer we declined, so he sent
us one of his extra-professional efforts on the early his-
tory of Dade County, Florida. Before gas rationing, Judge
Hudson and his wife spent many summers in Lexington where
they have a hest of friends. His home is in Miami, Florida,
where he is a member of the law firm of Hudson & Cason.

Augustus K. Bowles gives his address as 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York 20, New York.

Dr. Douglas S. Anderson is living at Ogunquit, Maine,
after serving for many years as Dean of Tulane University,
New Orleans, Louisiana.

1892

Malcolm G. Bruce lives at his Berry Hill Plantation, South
Boston, Virginia.

William C. Morton, Clerk of the Circuit Court of Berkeley
County, Martinsburg, West Virginia, writes of his struggles
with the pronunciation of Latin under “Old Nick” (Professor
Harris).

Judge William Folsom Moore is a member of the law
firm of Moore & Moore, First National Bank Building, Paris,
Texas.

1896

C. Cabell Tutwiler has a beautiful home “Brushwood” on
the slope of the Brushy Hills, near Lexington, Virginia, com-
manding an unsurpassed view of the town and
the surrounding countryside.

Dr. Livingston W. Smith is still teaching
Math at Washington and Lee.

Charles E. Heater lives at Point of Rocks,
Maryland.

H. H. Larimore gives us no news of him-
self. We therefore presume he is still an offi-
cial of the Missouri and Pacific Railroad. His
offices are in the Missouri Pacific Building,
St. Louis, Missouri.

1898

Henry W. Anderson, member of the law
firm of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and
Moore, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia,
says there is nothing he can do about a class

' ' ' 4 ¥
ben UNO SOMME; tes

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

letter, that he is going on doing the same thing he was doing
last year.

David M. Barclay is still with the United States Tariff
Commission. Having heard his Class Agent, Ed O’Neal,
speak over the radio, he wants to know where he acquired
that farmer vernacular.

R. W. Holt is chief accountant for the Public Schools of
the District of Columbia, Thirteenth and K Streets, Washing-
ton, D. C.

J. Sam Slicer is practicing law in the Chamber of Com-
merce Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

1902

Volney M. Brown is a member of the law firm of Brown &
Brooke, El Paso National Bank Building, El Paso, Texas.
He and his wife made a trip to Lexington in 1941, which he
hopes to duplicate when it is possible.

A. L. Burger is Superintendent of Public Schools, Lynch-
burg, Virginia. His son is a First Lieutenant in the Army.

E. W. G. Boogher lives at 511 Kings Highway, Moores-
town, New Jersey. He has two sons and a son-in-law in the
Army.

1903

D. V. Guthrie is head of the Department of Physics and
Astronomy and Director of the Astronomical Observatory,
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

George Lee is vice-president and general manager of the
Pittsburgh Screw and Bolt Company. His address is 451
Orchard Avenue, Bellevue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Clement Boaz is still in the real estate business in Fort
Worth, Texas. Fort Worth has the largest plane factory in
the country and the town is full of factory workers. His job
is to help furnish housing and he says they are swamped.

B. F. Combs is a member of the law firm of Combs and
Combs, First National Bank Bldg., Prestonsburg, Kentucky.

J. F. Wysor is County Treasurer of Pulaski County, Vir-
ginia. He writes a most interesting letter to his class agent.

Hillard Hagan Smith, attorney and banker, of Hindman,
Kentucky, was appointed State Banking Director on May 1,
1944.

1904

Robert L. Kolb lives at 25 Eact Third Street, Frederick,
Maryland.

Lyle M. Moffett served as stated supply in the McDowell,
Virginia, Presbyterian Church for twenty-seven years, was
unanimously called and installed as pastor of the church on
October 17, 1922. Normally the church worships in five dif-
ferent buildings, but gathered at the central church on this
memorable occasion.

George Worthen is vice-president of W. B. Worthen Com-
pany, Bankers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Arthur Tabb is manager of the Tabb Storage Warehouse,
Louisville, Kentucky. He says his business is “sixty-eight
years young.”

1905

John A. Moore gives his address as P.O. Box 1164, Miami,
Florida. He and his wife, who was Louise Shields, are both
natives of Lexington, Virginia.

LeWright Browning lives in Ashland, Kentucky.

1906

E. V. Hardway says he cast about for a place to locate
for two years after graduation, finally landed in Houston,
Texas—and stuck. He is a member of the law firm of Hard-
way, Harwell & Smith, Bankers Mortgage Building. Both of
his partners are now in the service, but the firm will con-
tinue as above when the war is over.

Ed Lea Davis is a member of the firm of Rose-Davis
Realty Company, Flat Iron Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

George W. P. Whip is a member of the law firm of Lord
and Whip, Munsey Building, Baltimore, Maryland.

John W. Eggleston is one of the Justices of the Supreme
Court of Virginia. His offices are at 301 City Hall Building,
Norfolk, Virginia.

B. J. Mayer is a member of the law firm of Lovejoy and
Mayer, LaGrange, Georgia. His only son is now in the Army
in the South Pacific.

Milton M. Herman lives at Forest Hills, Danville, Vir-
ginia. He gives no personal news.

1907

Fred S. Hoyt is teaching in the Drafting Department, Wor-
cester Boys’ Trade School, Worcester, Massachusetts. He
has two daughters, one married, and the other recently en-
listed in the Waves. He also has two grandchildren.

W. L. Lord is head of the Department of Mathematics,
Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Virginia.

Waldo B. Newell, M.D., is practicing his profession in
Enid, Oklahoma. His address is 310 South Fifth Street.

A. E. Griffith is vice-president and manager of the Century
Supply Company of Virginia. He has recently completed
twenty-six years of service with this company. His home its
at Wyandotte Avenue, Big Stone Gap, Virginia, and he
commutes twice daily to his work at Andover, about five and
one-half miles distant.

David H. Hill is still working with Merritt-Chapman and
Scott, New London, Connecticut, building launching ways for
submarines. His home is in Westfield, New Jersey.

1908

Albert W. Lybrand is a Civil Engineer with the Water De-
partment, District of Columbia. His address is 1223 Massa-
chusetts Avenue, S.E., Washington, D. C.

Earl K. Paxton is teaching in the Department of Mathe-
matics at Washington and Lee. He is always interested and
helpful in alumni affairs.

J. K. Guthrie, M.D., is practicing his profession in Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia. He has two sons, one in service, and
the other a student at the University of West Virginia, and
two daughters.

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Fred Bartenstein is with the Blackwell Engineering and
Construction Company, Warrenton, Virginia, but is away from
home most of the time on work for the government. His chil-
dren have all scattered, leaving only his wife and himself.

William Morrison Paxton is City Engineer for Florence,
Alabama. He has a daughter who is in her second year at
Randolph-Macon Womans College, Lynchburg, and a son
who is in second year high school.

Robert R. Gray is pastor of the Union and Salem Presby-
terian Churches, Union, West Virginia. Since his two children
are both girls, he claims a son-in-law in the service. His older
daughter is married to a Presbyterian minister now in Durant,
Oklahoma.

Montague I. Lippitt says he is now a full-fledged farmer,
with good fishing on his place. His address is Charles Town,
West Virginia.

William S. Graham is district manager of the Koppers
Coal Company, with headquarters at Norfolk, Virginia. He
has a married daughter and two sons, one an Ensign in the
U.S.N.R., and the other in the Engineering School at the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

F. F. Millsaps is president of the Ouachita National Bank
of Monroe, Louisiana.

R. Lee Page is in the insurance, investments, real estate
business in Norfolk and Virginia Beach. He has a son work-
ing for the government in Washington.

Edwin H. McGill is with the U.S. Engineers at Las Vegas,
New Mexico, on road and building construction at Camp Luna
Air Transport.

H. Lewis Brown is a member of the law firm of Burroughs
and Brown, 630 Fifth Avenue, 45 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York, New York.

John Lykes is a member of the firm of Lykes Brothers,
Incorporated, Ranchers, Packers of Beef and Pork Products,
Tampa, Florida. He does not give any personal news except
that he has three grandchildren.

1909

C. I. Carey is practicing law in St. Petersburg, Florida.
His residence address is 335 East 13th Avenue, St. Petersburg.

Edwin C. Caffrey is still Judge of the Essex Circuit Court,
Newark, New Jersey.

Beirnie Stedman is a lawyer and law writer for the Michie
Company, publishers, of Charlottesville, Virginia.

Sam M. Engelhardt has his offices at 801 Bell Building,
Montgomery, Alabama. He is purchasing agent for the City
of Montgomery, Alabama, and in the real estate business.

Carl Hinton still lives in Hinton, West Virginia.

Dr. Charles Watkins is Director of Margaret Morrison
College, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania.

Devall L. Gwathmey, D.D., is Rector of St. John’s Episco-
pal Church, Wytheville, Virginia. He says he still loves old
Washington and Lee as much as when he and his class agent,
John W. Claudy, published the Calyx.

1910

Cary Johnston is a member of the firm of Corneal, John-
ston & Wright, Architects and Consulting Engineers, At-
lantic Life Building, Richmond, Virginia.

Philip W. Murray is a member of the law firm of Lett,
Murray & Ford, First National Bank Building, Newport
News, Virginia.

J. W. Rader is still working for the National Park Service,
in March, 1943, as superintendent of Fort McHenry National
Monument and Historic Shrine in Baltimore, Maryland. He
says Francis Scott Key and himself still keep the flag flying
there, although it has not inspired him to write anything to
compare with the National Anthem, which was born there.
Thousands of the members of the Armed Forces from all
parts of the country visit Fort McHenry.

W. W. (“Bill”) Gwathmey, Jr., is still with the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company. His address is 912 Goff Building,
Clarksburg, West Virginia.

James Houston Willis is practicing law in Birmingham,
Alabama, with offices at 420 City Hall.

Jasper J. Barrett has his offices at 302 Southern ‘Title
Building, San Diego, California. He says San Diego is an
army and navy city with over 100,000 service men thereabouts.

Grover C. Worrell, Mullins, West Virginia, is an attorney
and counsellor at law. He gives us no personal news.

Joe Blackburn is a mining engineer and lives in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, at 1714 McClung Street. His only son,
John, is a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and on convoy duty
in the Atlantic.

1911

W. Trent Neel is an engineer. His home is at Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania. He is affiliated with many companies.

F. S. Johnson is head of the personnel department of E. I.
DuPont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware.
His residence address is 1006 Overbrook Road, Wilmington.

Lewis G. Cooper is practicing law in Greenville, North
Carolina. He is Local Government Appeal Agent to one of
the boards. Both of his children are girls, the oldest married
to a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Air Corps, the youngest
in high school.

W. A. Reid is cashier of the First National Bank, Trout-
ville, Virginia, which position he has held for twenty-three
years. He also has farm and orchard interests. He says he
has a charming wife and two daughters who make him walk
the straight and narrow path.

Ulen G. Medford is a member of the firm of Henderson-
Medford Motor Company, Lufkin, Texas. His only son is a
Captain Flight Surgeon who, at the time his letter was written
in March, was on his way overseas.

John S. Mullings is a member of the firm of Dye & Mul-
lings, General Contracting and Engineering, Columbia, Miss-
issippi. Practically all of his work is on defense jobs.

Emmett W. Barger is in the real estate and insurance
business in Waynesboro, Virginia. His oldest son, Warren,
entered Washington and Lee in the fall of 1941 and left in
February with the group of Army Enlisted Reserves. His
other son is fourteen and a sophomore in the local high school.

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

George Chaney, Colonial American National Bank Build-
ing, Roanoke, Virginia, holds a responsible position with the
Shenandoah Life Insurance Company. He has a son in for-
eign service.

Major General Clements McMullen is charged with the
maintenance of Air Forces aircraft within the United States
and technical supervision of such maintenance throughout
the world. This activity has carried him from Kumming to
Attu.

1912

Russell B. Wine, Class Agent for 1912-Law, is practicing
law in San Antonio, Texas, with offices in the National Bank
of Commerce Building. He is prosecuting criminal cases in
the District Attorney’s Office.

C. Lee Ordeman is with the Mead Sales Company, Incor-
porated, 230 Park Avenue, New York, New York.

Southgate Jones is vice-president of the First National
Bank, Durham, North Carolina.

Otho Shuford is on the staff of James A. Matthews &
Company, Accountants and Auditors, Memphis, Tennessee.

George Coyle is president of Coyle & Richardson, De-
partment Store, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lawrence E. Goldman, 1211 Rialto Building, Kansas City,
Missouri, has a son who is in the Medical Corps of the Army.
He says he is working for Henry Morgenthau, so we assume
his income is in the big brackets.

Rt. Rev. Lloyd R. Craighill, Episcopal Bishop of Ankin,
China, returned to the United States on the Gripsholm after
many months internment in China. He and his family are
spending a few weeks vacation at their camp in Goshen Pass
and have been visitors to Lexington, Virginia, renewing ties
with their many friends here.

1913

Dr. George West Diehl is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Corpus Christi, Texas, where he has been since 1932.
He has had a successful pastorate, as is evidenced by the
wiping out of a church debt of $107,000, and an, increase from
356 to 1,292 in membership. His church is also doing a splen-
did volunteer work for both officers and enlisted men in the
service.

G. M. Ward is superintendent of the Batesville High
School, Batesville, Arkansas. He has a daughter in college.

Dr. J. P. Richardson is with the Taylor-Richardson Clinic,
Clinic Building, Ellensburg, Washington. Having lost several
doctors due to the war effort, and the increased duties of
taking care of soldiers as well as civilians, they are kept very
busy.

Bob Witt is president of Builders Supply Company, San
Antonio, Texas.

Edward S. Delaplaine is Judge of the Court of Appeals of
Maryland, living in Frederick, Maryland.

Rev. John A. Bowman is the minister of the Presbyterian
Church, Waterford, Virginia, where he has been for fourteen
years. He recalls many pleasant associations with his class-
mates and other friends who are alumni of Washington and
Lee. He has a married daughter and a son who is Co-Pilot
for T.W.A., Burbank, California.

Paul C. Buford is still in the life insurance business in
Roanoke, Virginia. His offices are in the Shenandoah Life
Building.

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, Suite 1424, 30 North Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. He is well and sends kindest re-
gards, but all the rest of his class letter is censored. He
visited in Lexington last fall.

William A. Hyman is practicing law in New York, with
offices at 111 Fulton Street. He is too busy to give us any
personal news.

Alex Sloan is owner and operator of the Sloan Glass Com-
pany, Cumberland, Maryland.

William L. Hogue is Judge of the Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court of Jefferson County, Birmingham, Alabama.

1914
Dr. Julian W. Selig is an optometrist, 511
Street, Elizabeth City, New Jersey.

East Main

Thomas F. Ogilvie gives his address as 1200 Atlantic Ave-
nue, Atlantic City, New Jersey, but gives no news of himself.

Leon O’Quin is a member of the firm of Blanchard, Gold-
stein, Walker and O’Quin, First National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana.

J. D. Thornton is in the real estate and insurance business
in Huntsville, Alabama. He has a fine wife and three children,
two girls and a boy. His partner is now a Major in the armed
forces and his own time is about equally divided between
business and the Selective Service.

Buford S. Burks has been practicing dentistry for twenty
years in Crewe, Virginia.

Fred M. Davis is continuing in the general insurance busi-
ness, running Davis, Childs & Company, Inc., at 510 Krise
Suilding, Lynchburg, Virginia, an insurance company started
by his father and Mr. John W. Childs in the eighteen nineties.
He has two small daughters. His home is at 18 North Prince-
ton Street, and he asks that any of his class, passing through
Lynchburg, look him up.

Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr., is president of the Wheeling
Tile Company, Wheeling, West Virginia.

Major William Moseley Brown, U.S. Army Signal Corps,
has been serving in England for many months. Home ad-
dress: Drawer 506, Scarsdale, New York.

1915

Wiliam Haines Smith is in the oil business in Ardmore,
Oklahoma.

Woodson Houghton is a member of the law firm of Ellis,
Houghton & Ellis, Southern Building, Washington, D. C. He
says everything is practically the same with him since his
last class letter with the exception of the fact that he is a
year older and getting no richer fast.

Madison P. Coe is with the Federal Reserve Board, Wash-
ington, D. C. His home address is 1735 New Hampshire Ave-
nue, N.W., Washington, D. C.

O. B. Barker, Jr., is a member of the firm of Barker-Jen-
nings Hardware Corporation, 1000-1002 Commerce Street,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

[ 12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

C. C. Holcombe lives at 3300 Cliff Road, Birmingham, Ala-
bama. He travels throughout the South representing the Im-
perial Paper and Color Corporation of Glen Falls, New York.

John G. Boatwright is with Dibrell Brothers, Incorpor-
ated, Leaf Tobacco, Danville, Virginia.

Howard Stuck operates three Piggly-Wiggly stores in
Jonesboro, Arkansas, catering to 300,000 persons who come
from the 50-mile radius trading area to Jonesboro for satis-
faction of their needs. In 1934 he was elected to the office of
president of the National Piggly-Wiggly Operators’ Asso-
ciation. He is a Rotarian, a member of the Chamber of Com-
merce, a Mason, a Shriner, treasurer of the First Presby-
terian Church, and a Sunday School teacher. He is the father
of three children. His son, Lt. Howard Stuck, Jr., is now
serving in the United States Army.

J. Carl Fisher, 208 Witherspoon Road, Homeland, Balti-
more, Maryland.

1916

F. Stanley Porter is practicing law in Baltimore with of-
fices in the First National Bank Building.

Wiley D. Forbus, M.D., is head of the Department of
Pathology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,
North Carolina.

David Falk has a large department store in Tampa, Flori-
da. He reports that things are very active in Tampa, with
shipyards and army fields located there.

D. Easley Waggoner is vice-president and general mana-
ger of the United States Life Insurance Company, Dallas,
Texas.

Frank O. Steele is still with the Technical Staff of the
Bureau of Internal Revenue, with offices in the Jefferson
Standard Building, Greensboro, North Carolina.

Robert G. Nelson, M.D., is practicing medicine in the
Citizens Building, Tampa, Florida.

A. L. (“Al”) Bennett is superintendent of the Alleghany
Public Schools, Covington, Virginia.

Battle Bagley lives at R.F.D. 3, Fayetteville, Tennessee,
but gives us no news except that he is “O. K.”

Dr. Preston Hawkins is in the Department of Surgery at
the Chesapeake and Ohio Hospital in Clifton Forge, Virginia.

Major Norvin Charles Evans, LL.B., 16, U.S. Army Ex-
change Service, was one of the conferees at the Overseas Spe-
cial Service Army Exchange Conference meeting at Wash-
ington and Lee, May 15-19, 1944.

1917

Marion D. Williamson makes foreign and domestic veneers
at his plant in Cockeysville, Maryland. The entire product of
his industry is now converted to airplane purposes. He is liv-
ing at 4510 Roland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

Henry J. Blackford is a member of the firm of A. M. Law
& Company, Stocks, Bonds, Insurance, Spartanburg, South
Carolina.

James H. Forbes is in the tea and coffee business under

the firm name of Jas. H. Forbes Tea and Coffee Company,
908-926 Clark Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri.

Paul D. Barns is Judge of the Circuit Court, with offices on
the fourth floor of the Court House, Miami, Florida. He says
he is always glad to see the names of his classmates in the
Magazine, but does not give us any news of himself.

R. Glenn Craig, M.D., has his offices in the Medico-Dental
Building, 490 Post Street, San Francisco, California.

Jackson R. Collins is an attorney and counsellor at law,
111 Broadway, New York. He has two boys and two girls.

Marshall Twyman is a member of the law firm of Twy-
man Brothers, 999 Southwest First Street, Miami, Florida.
He regrets that there is no place in this war for veterans of

World War I.

J. R. Campbell and Robert M. Campbell, both of the
Class of 1917-A, live in Tioga, West Virginia.

Marion S. Sanders has recently been appointed “Research
Associate in Mining” at Columbia University, New York. His
son, Richard Sharpe Sanders is to enter Harvard in Novem-
ber, 1944. Home address: 420 West 116th Street, New York
27, New York.

Herbert G. Peters, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Peters, Lavinder, Peters & Rouse, Bristol, Virginia-Tenn-
essee. His present public activities include: member of the
School Board of Bristol, Virginia, and Appeal Agent for Lo-
cal Draft Board. He reports a boom in Bristol on account
of several big war factories and all industries going full swing.

1918

E. V. Bowyer is commercial manager of the Roanoke Gas
Company, Roanoke, Virginia, and “grinding away under war
conditions.”

S. E. Moreton, Jr., gives his address as 721 South Church
Street, Brookhaven, Mississippi, but gives no other news.

Lecnce Vaughan, Jr., Carolina Fiber Company, Harts
ville, South Carolina.

Allein Beall, Jr., is a merchandise broker in Helena, Ar-
kansas.

1919

A. D. Collins is resident engineer for the Dingess-Run
Coal Company, Stollings, West Virginia, where he has been
for the past seventeen years.

W. Roy Campbell has been with the Hans Watts Realty
Company, Huntington, West Virginia, for twenty-two years.
This is one of the oldest and strongest real estate firms in
West Virginia. He is married and has three children—two
boys and a girl.

Samuel A. Anderson, M.D., is still practicing his profes-
sion in Richmond, Virginia. His address is 2326 West Grace
Street, Richmond, Virginia.

Harry E. Handley, M.D., is assistant director, Division of
Public Health, The Commonwealth Fund, 41 East 57th
Street, New York, New York. He married, in 1924, Gertrude
M. Krastel of Wilmington, Delaware, and they have two
sons, the older of whom is studying chemical engineering at
Cornell University.

Rev. Theodore H. Evans is pastor of St. Paul’s Church,
Fairmount, Coventry Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1920

Mac McCain is with the William Hengerer Company,
Buffalo, New York, in the department store business.

Harry Burns is Southern representative for the Belding
Heminway Corticelli Company, with offices in Atlanta,
Georgia.

Bill Parker has law offices in the Ingraham Building in
Miami, Florida. He has two sons.

Herbert Powell is principal of Central High School at
Painter. Virginia.

Ott Magruder is still living in New York City at 161 West
78th Street.

Harry Moore is Professor of Poultry Husbandry at Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia.

Fred Bailey is president of the Kenova-Huntington Land
Company in Huntington, West Virginia.

Waller Callison is with Callison and Company, Incorpor-
ated, in Staunton, Virginia, selling general insurance and real
estate.

Alex Walker is still living in Philadelphia at 1005 Reming-
ton Road, Penfield Downs.

Bob Russell is superintendent of schools of Tangipahoa
Parish, Amite, Louisiana. He has four children, one son and
three daughters.

1921

Edward Moyler is practicing law in Franklin, Virginia,
and is commissioner in chancery. He writes: “I feel now like
I would cancel an argument before the Supreme Court of the
United States in order to see the members of my class at a
specified time in Lexington.”

James Shaver is serving as Lieutenant Governor of the
State of Arkansas, and is living at Wynne.

Robert Hutcheson is still living in Roanoke, Virginia. His
address is Postoffice Box 1031.

Lester Fox is associated with the Fox Truck Service, 206
Shelby Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee.

Reginald Trotter is engaged in the general merchandise
business in Monticello, Arkansas. He has a fifteen year
old son.

1922

Garland Gray was recently elected to the State Senate
in the Virginia Assembly. His home is in Waverly, Virginia.

Henry Trotter is agent for the St. Paul Fire and Marine
Insurance Company, located in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Dewey Reynolds writes from Pittsburgh that “it has been
all work and no play. Have had one holiday, Christmas, in
the past year. I get much pleasure from my hobby of col-
lecting antique firearms, of which I have about seventy.”

Charles Miller is president and treasurer of the Talladega
Ice and Storage Company in Talladega, Alabama.

1923

J. Frank Rushton, president of the Birmingham, Alabama,
Chamber of Commerce, and vice-president of the National

Association of Ice Industries, is the author of the famous
Birmingham plan, under which chief executives interview
returning service men and aid them in finding jobs.

Roger Jones is in the legal department of Sinclair Re-
fining Company with offices in Kansas City, Missouri. He
has a son, Robin, 10, and a daughter, Ann, 7.

Robert Carr is president of R. H. Carr Lumber Company,
manufacturers and dealers in long and short leaf pine lum-
ber, Jasper, Alabama.

Weldon Kilmecn is in construction work in Baltimore
with the Baltimore Asphalt Block and Tile Company. He has
a son five years old.

Bernie Hampton is pastor of the Central Methodist Church
in Elizabethton, Tennessee. He has three daughters, 14, 9,
and 7.

Dr. John Bonner is still practicing medicine in Elizabeth
City, North Carolina.

Jay McDonald is in the millinery business in Cleveland,
and is living at 2820 Ludlow Road, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

1924

John Guerrant continues as vice-president of the Virginia
Paper Company in Richmond, Virginia, and reports that the
paper business has its troubles also in war times.

Will Kirkman is living in Nashville, Tennessee, at 4405
Estes Avenue.

John Townsend Collins is an optometrist in Charleston,
West Virginia.

Lyle Sattes continues with the Belle Alkali Company
above Charleston, lives in Charleston, and he and his family,
wife and three daughters, spend their summers at St. Albans
below Charleston, West Virginia.

Henry Jones continues in the lumber business in Memphis,
his firm being the Williford & Jones Lumber Company.

Norfleet Turner, also in Memphis, had the “Executive
and Vice” taken off his title in January and was made “Pres-
ident” of the First National Bank of Memphis.

Nelson Lake is Ration attorney for the Office of Price
Administration for the state of West Virginia. His home ad-
dress is 1016 Cleveland Avenue, Charleston, West Virginia.

Roscoe Thomas continues practicing law in Charleston,
West Virginia, and has been one of the receivers for Fidelity
Investment Association, which did business in about thirty
states but failed about two years ago.

Lou Towbes is in the real estate business in Washington,
D. C. His new address is 1104 Vermont Avenue, N. W.

Mat Matheney is engaged in general civil practice and
corporation work in El Dorado, Arkansas. He has two sons,
17 and 13.

Johnny Lovelace is Commonwealth’s Attorney for the
city of Suffolk, Virginia, having been elected the last time
without opposition.

Lt. Walter H. Scott, U.S. Naval Reserve, is serving over-
seas, and is now back on full duty after a term in the hands
of the medicos. Home address: Box 1648, Roanoke, Virginia.

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1925

Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, the faithful Class Agent for
1925-A, is pastor of the Hedricks Methodist Church of Jack-
sonville, Florida.

(Notes written by Class Agent, Bruce F. Gannaway)

Lt. Clyde Nixon Allen is in the U.S. Navy in the South
Pacific. No word from Clyde, but an acknowledgement from
his sister.

Lt. Commander Alexander Nathan Chaffin is a doctor
aboard an LST in the South Pacific, where he has been
serving for more than a year. No word from him but an
acknowledgement from his wife in Wytheville, Virginia.

Lt. Col. Allen Rushton is moving right along. The alumni
records showed him as Captain; I thought he was a Major, and
here he is one step beyond. He must be doing a swell job in
the Ordnance Department, and is still stationed in Birming-
ham. (I guess most of us have noticed the splendid idea pro-
duced by Allen’s brother, Frank, in the development of the
“Birmingham Plan,” given fine publicity in a recent issue
of the Saturday Evening Post.)

Major Allan Sloan is in Edmonston with the U.S. Engi-
neers. He says that during the past year he has travelled
60,000 miles, mostly by air, covering Alaska, the Yukon,
Northwest Territories, and other areas. “Spec” plans to have
the war over so we can have our reunion next June. I’m
all for it.

Capt. E. E. Rosborough is still at Camp Lee, Virginia.
“Red” was rarin’ to go overseas last year, as | know most
fellows are after they have been in for a while. But we know
“Red” is doing a grand job where he is, or they would prob-
ably have moved him on.

Lt. Charles Walton Rex, USNR, Air Center, Navy 158,
FPO, San Francisco, writes an interesting letter from the
Southwest Pacific where he has been kept mighty busy.
Walton reminds us that after the war the only real solution
is to give Christian principles a chance, and to promote
good will among all men. Let’s hope we don’t fail to do this.
Walton, from the midst of the battle, sends us a Defense
Bond to his Alma Mater. I’m sure he knows more about
the value of these bonds than we do.

Lt. Marvin F. Hummer, USNR, is still in the South Pa-
cific, where he has been for over a year and a half. His letter
to me was late because of “a quick trip to New Zealand.”
Marvin sent his check for $25.00, a thing which he has done
every year since leaving W. and L. That’s a mighty good
example.

Capt. W. C. (“Johnny”) Mead has written us from a
“coral atoll” saying how much he has enjoyed reading a copy
of The Alumni Magazine, which gave him a nostalgia for a
sight of House Mountain. He has been out there for eleven
months.

Bob Stuckenrath is still living at 300 Shaw Avenue, Lew-
iston, Pennsylvania.

William E. Moore is practicing law on his own and is
looking forward to our twentieth reunion. Has it been that
long?

Fillmore Norfleet is teaching in“ The Groton-of-the-South,”
Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Virginia. He

is married and has a son, aged three. In April, 1943, he was
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee.

Ransom Houchins is now claims agent for the Mundy
Motor Lines in Roanoke, Virginia. He is living in the country,
about seven miles from Roanoke, and doing a little farming
on the side. He sends best regards to all members of the Law
Class of 1925.

1926

Thomas P. Foley, Class Agent for 1926, is branch manager
of a commercial credit company. Home address: 151 West
4%th Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Walk C. Jones, Jr., gives his home address as 1791 Carr
Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee.

Rufus Fulton is with the Armstrong Cork Company in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Carl Knight is editor of The Post and is living in Big
Stone Gap, Virginia.

Dr. George Wolfe, who graduated in medicine from the
Harvard Medical School, is associated with the Children’s
Clinic in Shreveport, Louisiana.

Ed Morris is vice-president of the Blue Bell Globe Man-
ufacturing Company in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Rev. Charles W. Lowry is now Rector of All Saints’
Church, 3 Chevy Chase Circle, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Capt. Jack C. Chapman is located (or was when his let-
ter was written) at Alexandria, Louisiana, Army Air Base,
Officers Section, AAF, as Staff Intelligence Officer, and likes
his duties very muct. Jack says he’s itching to get overseas
duty with the Second Air Force. Home address: Smithfield,
Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) J. R. Hendrix, U.S. Naval Reserve, followed the
Marines into Tarawa last fall and has been there since that
time. Home address: 3542 Lenox Road, Birmingham, Ala-
bama.

Lt. Comdr. Emmett W. MacCorkle has been serving in
Washington. He now has an overseas address. He says: “I
think our faculty and president deserve a special vote of
thanks from the Alumni for their untiring efforts to carry on
despite present-day adversity. Our school has survived worse
wars than this one and I feel sure that when the current
trouble is over, she will be a more famous Alma Mater than
ever and be able to train our country’s youth more effectively
than ever and instill even higher ideals than in the past.”
Home address: 1288 National Road, Wheeling, West Virginia.

Capt. L. E. Wice, U.S. Army Medical Corps, has done
induction work in various stations. Home address: 920 St.
Paul Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

Major Henry Lee, U.S. Army Medical Corps, is Chief of
the Surgical Service of an Army Hospital in England. Home
address: care of Dr. Elizabeth Lee, Blacksburg, Virginia.

Dr. Thomas R. Nichols is still practicing medicine in
Morganton, North Carolina.

1927

Jim Cox Wilbourn, Class Agent for 1927-A, is now a Lt.
(j.g.) stationed in Washington, D. C., with the Bureau of
Supplies and Accounts. He has been precticing law in his

[15 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

home town, Meridian, Mississippi, since graduation. He is
married and has two children, a boy 7 and a girl 4.

Major William M. Pope, U.S. Army Air Corps, is sta-
tioned at Headquarters Material Command, Dayton, Ohio.
His duties require considerable traveling. He reports that he
now has a future prospect for Washington and Lee, William
M. Pope, Jr., born on September 1, 1943.

Capt. Garland T. Lewis is now located at 5102 Jamestown
Road, Yorktown Village, Maryland, Washington 16, D. C.

Sam McCain is associated with the Corn Products Com-
pany, 17 Battery Place, New York City. Sam has two chil-
dren, a girl 8 and a boy 6.

Harold Sullivan is practicing law in Detroit, Michigan,
at 828 Ford Building. He is living in Grosse Pointe.

Dr. Reese Coleman is practicing medicine in Wilmington,
North Carolina. His home address is 24 Borden Avenue.

Alma Litz is living in Tazewell, Virginia.

Carlton Walters is associated with the law firm of Tan-
ner, Gillcocks, and Friend, at 1 Madison Avenue, New York
City. His home address is 51 Lincoln Avenue, West Hemp-
stead, New York.

1928

Frederick M. P. Pearse, Class Agent for 1928-A, is with
the Federal Power Commission, Washington, D. C. Home
address: 1637 Underwood Street, N.W., Washington 12, D. C.

Capt. Lester A. Brown, U.S. Army Medical Corps, is now
assigned to the eye, ear, nose and throat department of a
station hospital in England. Home address: Doctors Build-
ing, Atlanta, Georgia.

Capt. Charles E. Branham has been stationed in Wash-
ington since August, 1942. He is assigned to the Military In-
telligence Division, General Staff, in the Foreign Liaison Of-
fice. Probably more important to him was the birth, on Feb-
ruary 26, 1943, of a daughter, Yolande Vandeveer. Home ad-
dress: Arlington Village, Arlington, Virginia.

Herbert M. Sifford is an American Red Cross Field Di-
rector serving in England. Before his present overseas as-
signment he served with the Red Cross in England, North
Africa, Sicily, and Italy with Headquarters, Second Army
Corps, and with the 64th Fighter Wing. Home address: 425
North Main Street, Greensburg, Pennsylvania.

Marshall Vandiver is a manufacturers’ agent in Rome,
Georgia, designing payroll and business systems.

Bill Alderson is president of Fussell-Graham-Alderson
Company, dealers in general merchandise and cotton buyers,

of Forrest City, Arkansas. Bill has a young son, born on
March 3, 1943.

Bill Norman is treasurer of the Crossett Lumber Com-
pany in Crossett, Arkansas. He has two children, a boy 8,
and a girl 4.

Stanley Coulling is teaching defense classes in the Ful-
lerton, California, public schools. His address is 211% North
Lawrence Avenue, Fullerton, California.

Gerald Horine is with the Automotive Division of the
War Production Board, and is living at 400 Commonwealth
Avenue, Alexandria, Virginia.

W. C. Magruder, Jr., is with the Carter Carburetor Cor-
poration, 2820 North Spring Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri.

Percy Cohen is in the furniture business at 207 Third
Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee.

1929

Lt. (j.g.) Frank T. Parker, Class Agent for 1929-A, has
been with the U.S. Navy since February, 1944, first at Day-
tona Beach, Florida, then Hollywood, Florida, and is now
stationed with the Bureau of Personnel in Washington, D. C.
Home address: 412 East Jefferson Street, Charlottesville,
Virginia.

Lt. A. L. McCardell, Jr., U.S. Naval Reserve, writes from
the University Club, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Home ad-
dress: 301 Rockwell Terrace, Frederick, Maryland.

Major George Henry Goodwin has been overseas since
January, 1944. Home address: 369 West Madison Street,
Bastrop, Louisiana.

T/S Robert Weinstein has managed to stick to legal work
in the Army. He is now with the Ninth Air Force Service
Comand in Kngland and has been assigned to a job where
his legal knowledge is of great value. He works in the Judge
Advocate section of his squadron, working with courts and
boards and military law, which is pretty complicated business
to an ordinary “G.I.”” Home address: Lumberton, North Car-
olina.

Lt. Comdr. Allen Morgan has served two years as Aide to
Commanding Officer and Public Relations Officer, and was
made Personnel Officer on May 1, 1944. Home address: 2297
Court, Memphis, Tennessee.

Lt. (j.g.) James Price Lowry was cited last December by
Admiral Halsey for “conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity”
in leading a reconnaisance patrol onto a Japanese-held is-
land in the South Pacific, and decorated with the Silver Star
Medal. Home address: 244 South Seventh Street, Clinton,
Oklahoma.

Robert S. Bacon, who addresses his Class Agent as Mar-
shal Ney and signs himself as Bonaparte, has made a terrific
struggle to get in the Service. He was accepted finally, put
his affairs in trust, attended numerous farewell parties and
received a watch from his fellow officers as a token of affec-
tion and grief over his departure, and was turned down again.
He doesn’t state whether or not he returned the watch. Home
address: 1904 Government Street, Mobile, Alabama.

Lt. (j.g.) Dick Sperry, U.S. Naval Reserve, wrote from
Fort Schuyler, New York. He has been all over the country
helping to build loading plants, airfields, rayon plants, and
was Chief Engineer of Grenada Army Air Field. Home ad-
dress: 121 North Street, Chardon, Ohio.

George H. Lanier, Jr., is now Director of the Cotton and
Rayon Division of the War Production Board and spends
practically his entire time in Washington. He is performing
this unselfish and patriotic task with consummate skill and
is achieving well merited distinction in this work. His address
is 40 Worth Street, New York, New York.

James J. Salinger has been in the Army since May, 1942.
When his class letter was written in March, he was a Cor-
poral at Fort Dix in one of the receiving companies of the
Reception Center. Address from which mail will be forwarded:
75 Maiden Lane, New York, New York.

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Major Opie Norris Smith, U.S. Army Medical Corps, is
now somewhere in England. Home address: 118 East Smith
Street, Greensboro, North Carolina.

Jim Bane is now with Charles Scribner’s Sons in Kala-
mazoo, Michigan. Since leaving Washington and Lee, Jim
has taught at the Boys Latin School in Baltimore and at the
Western Michigan College in Kalamazoo. His address is 914
Davis Street.

Major Lewis F. Powell returned to this country from Af-
rica and is now in England. Home address: 1238 Rothsay
Road, Richmond, Virginia.

Major James M. Shackelford is stationed at the Ordnance
Research Center, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. He
is now executive officer of the Ballistic Research Laboratory
there.

Arthur D. Simmons, 2 Melrose Street, Adams, Massachu-
setts, writes on March 5, 1944, that he expected to begin
“boot training” on April Ist.

W. C. P. Weaver is in the U.S. Army. We have no further
information. Home address: Emporia, Virginia.

Lt. William C. Watson, Jr., is Aide to Admiral C. P.
Snyder, Navy Department, Washington, D. C. Address: Rm.
3040, Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

Capt. James A. Castner, when last heard from, was an
Intelligence Officer of a Bombardment Squadron of the Sixth
Air Force at an outlying base in the Caribbean area. Home
address: 188 New Street, Belleville 9, New Jersey.

Julius G. Berry, in May, was at Camp Reynolds, Penn-
sylvania, “ready to go over.” Home address: 533 Jefferson,
Tupelo, Mississippi.

Capt. Hayward Francis Day is stationed at Harding
Field, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He is in charge of acute med-
icine and contagious diseases.

Lt. James Price Lowry, of the U.S. Navy, received the
Silver Star for gallantry on reconnaisance action on a South
Pacific island.

Walter Connell is running a store and managing a cotton
plantation in Louisiana. His post office address is McDade,
Louisiana.

Tom Caldwell is a live-stock farmer in Texas, running a
large plantation at Mt. Pleasant. Tom has three children,
two boys, 15 and 13, and a daughter, 5.

P. C. (“Bunny”) Whitlock is still with the West Virginia
Pulp and Paper Company in Covington, Virginia. At a meet-
ing of the Alumni Board of Trustees on May 27, 1944, he was
elected a member of the Board and Treasurer of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Incorporated.

William Wood Glass is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church in Decatur, Alabama. He has a young daughter, Ruth
Elkins.

Bill Pace is living in Portsmouth, Virginia, and working
in Norfolk, where he is in the accounting department of the
Virginian Railway.

Earnest Sanders is practicing law in Fort Worth, Texas,
with the firm of Simon, Wynn, and Sanders. He has two sons,
aged ten and five.

Albert Smeltzer is living in Abingdon, Virginia, where he
is secretary-treasurer of the Rose-Smeltzer Furniture Com-
pany. Al now has two boys, aged six and two.

Bernard Yoepp is in the retail personnel department of
Sears, Roebuck and Company in Chicago. He is married and
has an eleven year old daughter.

Joseph Lockett graduated from the University of Texas
Law School after graduating from Washington and Lee. He
is now practicing in Houston, Texas, with the firm of An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth, and Campbell.

Lt. Robert B. Lee was with the Bankers Trust Company
in New York until he entered the service in October, 1942.
After a term in the Harvard Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration, he was assigned to Greenville, South Carolina,
where he is a member of the Quartermaster Price Adjust-
ment Section.

1930

Kenneth L. Keil, Class Agent for 1930-A, is with the
Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company, 909 Myers Building,
Springfield, Illinois.

Pfc. Page Tredway is in the Base Finance Office, Drew
Field, Tampa, Florida.

Lt. (j.g.) Herbert Jahncke, U.S. Naval Reserve, reported
to Boston for training on June 2, 1944. Home address: 814
Howard Avenue, New Orleans 4, Louisiana.

Capt. Harry M. Homer has been in the armed forces for
three years. He has been stationed at eleven posts or air
fields and has been Commandant of Cadets and Student
Officers at Malden Army Air Field, Malden, Missouri, for
thirteen months. He expected to be transferred to Wright
Field, Dayton, Ohio, on June first. His home is in Martins-
burg, West Virginia.

Robert W. Mosley is in the Navy (Seabees). He trained
at Camp Peary, Virginia. He was at an advanced base when
his letter was written and expected to “shove off any day
for the island X that we hear so much about.” Home address:
Mammoth Springs, Arkansas.

Lt. (j.g.) F. L. Shipman, U.S. Naval Reserve. reported for
duty at the Naval Supply Depot at Clear Falls. Utah, in
January, but we have no information since that time. Home
address: 210 Ridge Avenue, Troy, Ohio.

Lt. (j.g.) duVal Radford, U.S. Naval Reserve, volun-
teered August, 1943; trained at Fort Schuyler, New York,
and Solomons, Maryland; now commanding officer L.C.I.
Home address: Forest, Virginia.

William A. Ward has been advanced from the rank of
Captain to Major. He can always be reached care of Wood-
ruff, Ward and Etheridge, Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

Simon Wender was stationed at Camp Hale, Colorado, in
May, 1944. Home address: Woodstock, Virginia.

Capt. Albert Steves, III, is now “somewhere in England.”

Bill Hawkins is living in Wilmington, Delaware, at 2206
West 11th Street. He is still with the Du Pont de Nemours
Company.

John Nelson is teaching in the Junior High School at
Danville, Virginia, in addition to his tobacco business in the
Banner Warehouse. He has a daughter, 10 years old.

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Bill Alsop is associated with Pillans and Smith Company,
dealers in wholesale groceries, of Ocala, Florida.

Frank O. Evans is practicing law in Milledgeville, Georgia,
with offices in the Kidd Building.

Palmer Brown is a member of the L. P. Brown Company,
dealers in bagging and ties, Exchange Building, Memphis,
Tennessee.

Howerton Gowen is manufacturing industrial chemicals
at Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina. He is married and has
a son, two years old.

Harry Lawder is in business in Havre de Grace, Maryland.

lst Lt. Robert E. Clapp, Jr., former Assistant Attorney
General of Maryland, has been named Third Service Com-
mand Assistant Judge Advocate. He entered the service in
June, 1943, and attended Judge Advocate General Officer
Candidate School at Ann Arbor, Michigan, before assign-
ment to Command headquarters. Home address: 303 Rock-
well Terrace, Frederick, Maryland.

Gerard Elbert Grashorn asks that his address be changed
to 38 South Dearborn Street, Room 1400, Chicago, Illinois.
He is practicing law in Chicago.

Lt. Col. Medford G. Ramey has been made head of the
Special Service Division of the Third Service Command. For-
merly a field artillery officer, he has been executive officer
and Commander of the 1327the Service Unit at Fort Story,
Virginia. Home address: Strasburg, Virginia.

Lincoln P. Brown, III, is secretary-treasurer of Brown &
Bolton, 1201 Exchange Building, Memphis, Tennessee.

1931

Frank Bready, Class Agent for 1931, is a food broker,
specializing in grocery specialities, with offices at 100 Hud-
son Street, New York, New York.

(Notes written by Class Agent, Frank Bready)

Lt. Lawton M. Calhoun has just completed nine months
duty beyond continental limits of the U.S. and is at Pensa-
cola, Florida, for temporary duty under instruction, upon com-
pletion of which he anticipates additional duty beyond the
United States. Home address: 1111 Bull Street, Savannah,
Georgia.

Pvt. Wallace Newton Tiffany is stationed at Fort Bragg,
North Carolina. Home address: Warrenton, Virginia.

Lt. Albert G. Peery is an officer in the U.S. Navy, sta-
tioned in the South Pacific area. His address is Navy 60,
FPO, San Francisco. He has a son three years old and a
brand new daughter.

Cpl. Graham Gillock’s service address is Hdqs. Btry.,
564th AAA Bat., Camp Claibourne, Louisana.

John Wescott Myrose is a Chaplain in the Navy stationed
at the U.S. Coast Guard Base, Rockland, Maine.

Robert H. Brundage, M.D., has entered the U.S. Army
as a First Lieutenant in the Medical Corps.

Capt. Herman Littman’s service address is No. 0379058,
243rd Q.M. Depot Co., APO 952, care of Postmaster, San
Francisco, California.

Lt. Comdr. L. Alexander Vance is a Navy doctor at present
stationed at 150 Causeway Street, Boston 14, Massachusetts.
Alex has lived in six different houses in a year and a half,
which must be some sort of a record.

Capt. Addison Whitt, Winchester, Kentucky, is in the
Army stationed in Iran.

M. E. Ballard, A/S, may be addressed as follows: Platoon
G. §. 172, Area C3, Camp Peary, Virginia.

T/S Fred S. Anderson’s service address is No. 32759048,
Hq. Btry, 368th F.A. Bn., APO 98, care of Postmaster, San
Francisco, California.

Lt. J. Alexander Veech, CEC, USNR, is stationed at the
Naval Air Station, San Diego, California, and advises he has
seen many Washington and Lee men while there, including
Ross Malone and Eli Finkelstein.

Capt. George F. Archer, M.C., is stationed at Camp
Wheeler, Georgia.

William T. Beard, MMIC, is in the Seabees, stationed in
the Pacific theater and can be reached care of 88th Batt. Co.
B, Plat. 1, care of Fleet PO, San Francisco, California.

Bob Baer is in the Military Intelligence Department of
the U.S. Army, and has been stationed at the University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor.

James B. Martin is an Armed Guard Officer in the U.S.
Navy, is “at sea” most of the time, but mail for him will be
forwarded from his home address of 112-A Cromwell Park-
way, Norfolk 5, Virginia.

Henry McLane is serving in the Artillery at present sta-
tioned at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, is married and has two chil-
dren, a boy and a girl.

Lt. Col. Walter Huntsberry is in England.

Capt. Ben Ayars is also in England. Address: 0-910073,
loth Port, APO 516, care of Postmaster, New York, N. Y.

Major Reno Russell Porter is Assistant Chief of the
Medical Services at the U.S. Army Lovell General Hospital,
Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

William O. Thomas is serving in the Pacific war theater.

George Minter, Jr., is a Lt. Comdr. in the Navy, married
and has one child.

T. Roy Sugg is a Sergeant in the U.S. Army.

M. A. Schrantz is a Major in the Army at last report sta-
tioned in England.

William V. Rucker is a Captain in the U.S. Army.
Henry James Paul is in the Navy.

Gerry Holden, Jr., gives his service address as Personnel
Department, Building 500, Naval Air Technical Training
Center, Jacksonville, Florida.

Lt. (j.g.) Thomas B. Fitzhugh, having completed his
training, reported to the U.S. Naval Armed Guard Center in
New Orleans, Louisiana, for assignment to duty as com-
mander of a Navy gun crew on a merchant ship.

Lloyd Myers is associated with the Black Diamond
Trailer Company, Incorporated, makers of commercial trail-
ers, in Bristol, Tennessee.

[18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Bill Tallyn is living now at 93 Kings Road in Chatham,
New Jersey.

John Raymond is now attending the Church Divinity
School of the Pacific in Berkeley, California.

Ben Maxey is living in Millersville, Pennsylvania, at 452
North George Street. His younger daughter was born on
September 5, 1942.

Ralph Grant is manager of the Meyers-Arnold Store in
Greenville, South Carolina.

Duncan McCcennell is living in Denver, Colorado, at 1920
Glencoe Street. He is doing government work as a geologist.

Paul Hornor is president of Hornor Brothers, civil and
mining engineers, in Clarksburg, West Virginia. He has
three sons.

Binford Parker is manager of the Parker Peanut Com-
pany in Suffolk, Virginia. He has two children, a boy of
two, and a girl three months old.

Barratt O’Hara is with the office of the Alien Property
Custodian in Chicago. His address is 1650 North Moody
Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Alfred D. Noyes is Assistant State’s Attorney for Mont-
gomery County, Rockville, Maryland. He is married and
has two daughters and a son.

corge Junkin is still employed by the Federal Crop In-
surance Corporation in the capacity of associate statistician.
He is married and has a young son, born on March 15, 1943.
His address is 321 Parkland Place, S.E., Apt. 3, Washing-
ton; Ds CG:

George Jenkins is now living in Conway, South Carolina,
engaged in the livestock business, farming and store rentals.
He is married and has two young children, a boy and a girl,
aged 8 and 3, respectively.

Robert S. Chapin is a private in the Army Air Force.
His home address is 1721 Lynden Street, South Pasadena,
California.

Charles A. Bowes is with N.T.S., Boulder, Colorado. His
forwardig address is 1526 Hi Point Street, Los Angeles,
California.

Harold M. Weston is First Lieutenant in the Army, now
stationed in Italy. He was cited in November, 1943, for
counter intelligence work relating to the security of a port.
His home address is 425 East 72nd Street, New York, New
York.

1932

William C. Mulligan, Class Agent for 1932-A, is with the
law firm of Winston, Strawn & Shaw, First National Bank
Building, Chicago 3, Illinois.

John Hill Morgan, of Farmington, Connecticut, is an
Honorary Alumnus of the class of 1932, having received an
honorary degree from Washington and Lee in that year. He
is always loyal and generous to his adopted class.

J. Kittredge Vinson, of Houston, Texas, entered the Amer-
ican consular service in 1939. His first appointment was to
Poland, but the Germans had occupied Poland before he
could reach that post. He next was sent to Berlin, where he
served only a short while before this country and Germany

recalled their diplomatic and consular representatives. Late in
1941, he was ordered to Yokohama, but that appointment was
cancelled when the Japs attacked United States territory.
Next, an appointment to Rangoon was cancelled because of
enemy action. But he spent two years in Karachi, India, the
next post to which he was ordered. It was while he was there
that he was promoted from unclassified to classified rating
and asked to help reestablish the Naples consulate general.

Lt. Richard O. Parmelee, U.S. Navy, has been serving
since November, 1943, as a Supply Officer somewhere in the
Pacific area. Home address: 500 North Euclid Avenue, Oak
Park, Illinois.

Major Charles A. Wood, Jr., is with the Quartermaster
Corps, Charleston, West Virginia.

Graham Morison is a First Lieutenant in the Marines.

Capt. Paul Hamilton Wofford, Jr., is stationed in the
Pacific. He is in the Marine Air Corps.

Baylis Hightower is associated with W. R. Hightower
and Son, dealers in men’s clothing, in Athens, Alabama. His
young son is four years old.

Evan Wimer is working with the Butler, Pennsylvania,
division of the American Rolling Mills, in the maintenance
department. He is married and has a six year old daughter.
Ilis address is R.F.D. 6, Butler, Pennsylvania.

Ed Allen is with the United Press Association in New
York City as the manager of the Special Service Bureau and

Radio Shows Division. He is married and his address is
404 East 55th Street.

Bill Edwards is with the D’Arcy Advertising Company
in St. Louis, Missouri. He has a young daughter—Sweet
Briar, 58, he says.

Tom Hancock is in business with his father in Morocco,
Indiana. His young son is now over two years old.

L. R. McKinney is an insurance agent in Denison, Texas.
He has a young son, born in September, 1942.

William Beard is now located with the National Dis-
tributors, Incorporated, in Birmingham, Alabama. His home
address is 526 Valley Road, Roebuck Springs, Birmingham,
Alabama.

Bob Reinhold is assistant director of personnel for the
Federal Home Loan Bank Administration, located in Wash-
ington, D. C.

(Notes written by Class Agent, William C. Mulligan)

Pfc. William C. Kimbrell writes from Fort Bragg, North
Carolina, where he is in the C and A Section at the Recep-
tion Center engaged in classifying selectees before assign-
ment. From 1939 to 1943, he was auditor for a chain of re-
tail furniture stores in North and South Carolina, and from
1939 to 1941 was a part-time student at the Duke University
Law School. Since 1943, he has been employed by his Uncle
Sam.

John W. (Jack )Ball is still practicing law and raising
his family in Jacksonville. He is also feeling the warm breath
of the draft board on the nape of his neck. He reports hav-
ing seen Bill White, who was stationed there several months,
Moon Mullins, who broke his back in a crack-up and was in
the hospital there, Dick Coe, who was at Ponte Vedra for a

[ 19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

visit, and “Charlie” McDowell, of the Law School faculty,
who is Education Officer at the Base. Home address: Box 24,
Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida.

Kemper Jennings, a predecessor Class Agent, is with the
Security and Intelligence Division of the Fourth Service Com-
mand, stationed at Atlanta. He has been stationed all over
the South and reports that there is little permanence in the
Army. His present station is a happy one as it is only 170
miles from his home and he has an opportunity to see his wife
and three year old daughter once in a while. Home address:
Box 328, Miami 3, Florida.

Sherwood W. Wise is a Lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve and is stationed at Headquarters of the Eighth Naval
District. He was recently on a short tour of sea duty, and of
the 15 officers on the ship, 4 were Washington and Lee men.
Home address: 935 Federal Buildng, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Edwin A. Nesbitt is a Captain, U.S. Army, and serving as
Assistant Classification and Assignment Officer. He has been
living in Louisville and fortunate enough to have Mrs. Nesbitt
with him. He reports hearing of Charlie Long, who is in the
Navy. Also writes that Peel Rivers, °33, who lives in Louis-
ville, was home recently to get some new teeth after being
shot in the mouth in the landing at Tarawa. Peel is a Marine
and was among the first at Guadalcanal.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert W. Reinhold, U.S. Naval Reserve, is the
Officer in Charge, Position Classification Field Office, Navy
Department. Until then he was engaged in governmental
personnel work and lived at 907 Gist Avenue, Silver Springs,
Maryland. Present address: Navy Yard, Charleston, South
Carolina.

Lt. (j.g.) D. George Price is with the Officer Selection
Unit, Division of Training, Bureau of Naval Personnel, and
interviews new officers in midshipman and indoctrination
schools to determine to which billets they will be assigned
upon completion of their training. He took his training at
Fort Schuyler, New York, and ran into Pat Mitchell, also a
Lieutenant (j.g.), who later went to Armed Guard School in
Norfolk and is presumed to be in convoy work. Lt. Price
reports that Ed Tonsmeire, an Ensign, is stationed in New
York after extensive sea duty. Home address: 814 Taylor
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Everett (Gus) Cross is a C/Sp. in the Second Reg., U-S.
N. T. S. (whatever all that means), Bainbridge, Maryland, and
is “doing recruit training” and enjoying it very muth. He
reports seeing George Price. Home address: 3608 Veazey
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Cpl. John C. Harris, 697th Army Air Force Band, Army
Air Field, Great Bend, Kansas, writes: “I have been in the
Army for ten months now (April), all of which has been
spent here at the Great Bend, Kansas, Army Air Field. By
some queer classification, the Army has tried to make a mu-
sician out of me. I don’t care for that much, but there are
certain advantages attached to it, chief of which is the fact
that I have been located at only one base and I have one of
those rare Army camp apartments and my wife and daughter
have been with me since induction. So far, it has been a very
pleasant tenure in the Army, considering, and I have been
spared any of the hardships of war.”

Dr. George W. Schnath, who normally lives in Evanston,
Illinois, writes: “I went on active duty as Navy Dental Offi-
cer last May, and was assigned to the U.S. Marine Corps, at
Camp Elliott in San Diego, where I remained until Decem-

ber, when the overseas orders came. Duty has really been
fine and I have no kicks coming at all, even though I volun-
teercd for Navy duty and am serving with the Marines, it’s
a grand outfit. I’m out in the beautiful Pacific and really have
seen some scenery that is beautiful, and have had no action
as yet.”

Capt. Robert K. Hoadley, Headquarters, I.R.T.C., Camp
Hood, Texas, sends no news other than that implicit in his
return address.

Lt. Comdr. J. G. (Jack) Marks, U.S. Coast Guard, writes:
“A word about myself—I’m now stationed ‘somewhere in
Australia’ as Commanding Officer of a Coast Guard Unit. I
made Lieutenant Commander last month after 30 months of
service, 22 of which have been spent overseas in the Caribbean
and Australian areas. Before the war I graduated from Co-
lumbia Law School (’35) and practiced law with my uncle
in New York City until 1941. I’m still single and not growing
younger—hit 34 last Sunday. That’s the shortest autobiogra-
phy I’ve ever written.”

Major Jack J. Stark has been in the Army since 1941 and
is now Chief of the Surgical Service at Wakeman General
Hospital Camp Atterbury, Indiana. His wife, Harriet, and
daughter, Judith Lee, are living in Shelbyville, Indiana, close
to Camp Atterbury.

Major James V. Freeman writes from England last May:
“Believe my ‘service record’ is on file with the Alumni up
until the move from Camp Blanding. Was ordered out with
several others into the numbered unit, and about the first of
the year we joined the group over here in England. This is a
great country in many respects, and it’s been quite a novelty
to become used to the people, their customs and manners,
and their somewhat unusual monetary system. Have man-
aged to see some of the sights of London, and the old cathed-
rals and points of interest in other towns. Our unit is set up
in permanent buildings and is functioning well in the pro-
fessional management of the cases. Of course, the big day is
yet to arrive, but we are prepared for it whenever it does
come. It might be of interest to Washington and Lee—over
my bed on the wall is the beautiful colored picture of the
campus and calendar that Dr. Gaines sent out with his Christ-
mas message and somehow it managed to reach me. Wonder
in what other parts of the world a similar scene exists? It
sure is a swell reminder of wonderful days gone by.” Major
Freeman is attached to the 48th General Hospital.

1933

Luther Violett, Class Agent for the Academic Class of
1933, is still with Dun and Bradstreet in Little Rock, Arkan-
sas. He has had many interesting letters from members of his
class.

William Todd DeVan, II, Major in the Medical Corps,
has been in England about seven months. He is in command
of a large surgical section of a mobile hospital, which prom-
ises plenty of excitement. His home address is care of DeVan
and Company, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. Comdr. H. A. Lamar, Jr., continues to serve as Aide
and Flag Lieutenant to the Commander in Chief, U.S. Pa-
cific Fleet and Pacific Ocean Areas, with additional duty
as Commanding Officer of the Flag Allowance. His home is
at Falls Church, Virginia.

Capt. Robert R. Smith, U.S. Army Medical Corps, wears
the gold wings of a Flight Surgeon and gets plenty of flying.

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He is somewhere in England. Home address: care of C. M.
Sensenig, 467 Irvington Road, Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania.

M/Sgt. Loring M. Garrison is with the Army in Eng-
land. He says he has been in the Army for a good while
now and hasn't met a single Washington and Lee man. Home
address: Easley, South Carolina.

Capt. Paul E. Holbrook, Army Medical Corps, has been
in the Army since September, 1942, and for the past year has
been stationed at Fort McClellan, Alabama. His home is at
Greenup, Kentucky.

Capt. Allen Harris Wofford, Army Air Corps, has recently
been transferred from Coffeyville, Kansas, to Coral Gables,
Florida. Home address: Llewellyn Wood, Johnson City,
Tennessee.

Lt. (j.g.) Walace B. Sheffield, U.S. Navy, was reporting
to Boston, where he expected to be for some time. Home ad-
dress: Americus, Georgia.

Claude LaVarre says he is still carrying on with the
Singer Sewing Machine Company in Santiago. He and his
wife have had to change their routine to conform to the de-
mands of a year-old boy. He says life in Santiago has been
little changed by the war. “... One of the minor contributions
we can offer is to provide a little entertainment for men in
the armed forces and merchant marine who come our way.
Fellows from the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base nearby come
to our town frequently, and we meet a lot of boys from ships
which put into port. If any Washington and Lee men are
among these without our knowing it, we'd like for them to
look us up. We can provide a few hours of home-like atmos-
phere and some refreshments. (After all, this is the home of
Bacardi.)”’ His address is Singer Sewing Machine Company,
Apartado 194, Santiago de Cuba.

Lt. John A. Culley, U.S. Navy, was “blown out of the war”
last June while enjoying the warm waters of the Mediter-
ranean; back on duty overseas. Home address: 703 East 3rd
Street, Dixon, Illinois.

Wallace Werble is a Corporal in the U.S. Army, having
been inducted on January 4, 1944. After a month at Fort
Meade, Maryland, he was assigned to the Office of Strategic
Services and has been on duty in Washington since that
time. His son, Wallace, Jr,. was born on September 8, 1943.
Home address: 2121 Virginia Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

Allen Symonds was promoted to Captain and is now in
the Artillery Repair Shop, Camp Hulen, Texas, where he has
been for the past two years. Home address: 1040 Judson
Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

Lt. (j.g.) Richard T. Edwards, USNR, was in training
at St. Simon’s Island, Georgia. Home address: 512 Allison
Avenue, $.W., Roanoke, Virginia. He is a member of the
Alumni Board of Trustees.

Lt. (j.g.) M. Hoge (“Mo”) Crighton is training for an
Armed Guard Commander .Home address: 20 South Boule-
vard, Richmond, Virginia.

S/Sgt. Wayne L. Flagg has been located at the Army
Air Base in Richmond, Virginia. Home address: 105 Congress
Street, Newtown, Pennsylvania.

Kenneth A. Shepherd has been in the Marine Corps since
May, 1942; is now serving in the Southwest Pacific as Radio
Technician in the Marine Air Corps. Home address: 703
Boulevard, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Lt. Jokn Griffiths, Jr., is a Statistical Control Officer,
Alamogorda, New Mexico. Home address: 21 Crescent Road,
Poughkeepsie, New York.

Charles Robert Kaplan is a Corporal in the U.S. Army.
He says “starting from scratch in civilian life was a cinch
compared to this.” He was married to Ilse Asher from Miami,
Florida, on December 15, 1943. Home address: Owensboro,
Kentucky.

Pvt. Stephen Ernest Skidmore, U.S .Army, 628 T.S.S.,
Trux Field, Madison 7, Wisconsin. Home address: 1212 Lin-
den Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee.

Ira Samelson operates Ira Samelson & Company, Food
Products Brokers, 419 South Main Street, Memphis 3, Ten-
nessee.

Cpl. Marshall Black joined the Marines in 1943. He is
now serving overseas. Home address: care of E. T. Black,
Thomaston, Georgia.

Lt. (j.g.) Augustus Pembroke Thompson completed in-
doctrination course in the U.S. Naval Reserve on Novem-
ber 11, 1943, and is now on duty with the Pacific Fleet. Home
address: Bayard, Warren County, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Charles F. Suter is at sea in the Pacific. Home
address: 1362 East 50th Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Pfc. Charles J. Longacre, Army Air Forces, was in New
Guinea in May, 1944. Home address: 32 Raymond Terrace,
Elizabeth, New Jersey.

Marion E. Porter is now a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army.
When his letter was written in May he was in North Africa.
Home address: 282 Sutherland Drive, Atlanta, Georgia.

Lt. William F. Stone was aboard the first ship to enter
the harbor at Dakar, West Africa, in the American landing
there in December, 1942. Home address: Stoneville, North
Carolina.

Byron de la Mater, a Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army,
was recently named Adjutant General of the 100th Infantry
at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

James Gillespie is associated with the Rochester Ameri-
can Insurance Company with offices in Birmingham, Alabama.

Fred Cook is attached to the Army’s Chemical Warfare
Service.

Henry Arnold is editor and publisher of The Cullman,
Alabama, Tribune. He has two children, a boy and a girl.

Deale Blanchard is in the retail fuel and hardware busi-
ness as president of Blanchard and Turner, Incorporated,
in Portsmouth, Virginia His young son was two years old
last February.

Bill Brooks is still with the Fisher Aircraft Division in
Memphis, Tennessee. He is now a payroll supervisor.

Edward Ferguson, Captain in the Army Medical Corps,
has been stationed with the Ashford General Hospital at
White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.

George Stout is located in Detroit, Michigan. His home
address is 16568 Griggs Avenue, Detroit.

Vess Irvine is now in defense work as sales engineer for
a steel plate fabricating concern. He has two young daughters.

| 21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John Watlington is vice-president of the Wachovia Bank
and Trust Company of Charlotte, North Carolina.

Lt. (j.g.) Simon Painter, U.S. Navy, is in the Amphibious
Force, stationed at Solomons, Maryland. He is the father of
twin boys, four years old, and a daughter 7. Home address:
Bedford, Virginia.

1934

Robert L. Buffington, Class Agent for 1934, is still with
the U.S. Engineer Office, Tulsa, Oklahoma. He is now As-
sistant Chief of the Hydrology Section.

Lt. Trooper A. Shaw, U.S. Marine Corps, Air Arm, is
stationed at the Naval Air Station, Miami, Florida. His home
address is 510 East 10th Street, Ada, Oklahoma.

Sam Woolford is located with the Retail Stores Division
of John Lucas and Company, paint manufacturers, in Ro-
chester, New York. He has a young daughter, Judy Anne,
born in October, 1940.

Lt. Harvey Pride is with the Army Air Force Flight Con-
trol. He has been stationed in Atlanta since last October,
but expects to go overseas within a short time. Home address:
447 Grant Street, Decatur, Alabama.

Layne H. Ford, U.S. Army Signal Corps, is still in Italy.
Home address: Box 534, Grafton, West Virginia.

Joseph C. Muller, Jr., is working as a Sulfuric Acid Tech-
nologist in Wilmington, Delaware. He has a dozen plants
under his control. Address: University Club, Wilmington,
Delaware.

Lt. (j.g.) Albert M. Fowler is at Roosevelt Base. Terminal
Island, San Pedro, California. Home address: Hotel Belle-
ville, Belleville, Illinois.

Lt. (j.g.) Holmes Dyer has been convoying in the Bering
Sea for the past five months. He says they have been bat-
tling the elements more than the enemy. He is sharing this
unpleasant, but extremely interesting, experience with an-
other Washington and Lee man, Ernest B. Corrick, ’42, who
is now doing an excellent job as Executive Officer.

(Notes written by Class Agent)

Capt. Jimmy Dye has recently returned to the United
States after two years in England, first with the RAF and
later with the USAAF. Jimmy was wounded during a flight
over the Pyrenees Mountains and again by a bomb explosion
in England. He is convalescing at Old Cantonment Hos-
pital, Mitchell Field, New York.

Lt. (j.g.) Chuck Reasor is now burning up the ocean
like he used to do on the track at Washington and Lee. He
is attached to a PT Squadron in the Southwest Pacific.

Fred Funkhouser, now U.S. Navy, reports that his two
boys, Charles Randolph, two and one-half years, and Douglas
Van, one and one-half years, have the same birthday, and will
go to Washington and Lee some day if Fred has anything
to do with it.

Capt. Everett Tucker, Jr., is stationed at New Castle
Army Air Base, Wilmington, Delaware. His career in the
Army has been as follows: Enlisted as a private in January,
1942; O.C.S. in November; commissioned 2nd Lt. in Janu-
ary, 1943; Ist Lt. in July, 1943; and Captain in March, 1944.
Everett was married to Frances Marion Williams, daughter of

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Monroe Williams of Little Rock, Ar-
kansas, on October 9, 1943.

Lt. Bob Safford is in the South Pacific on an LST. He
has been at sea since August, 1943.

Lt. Ruge DeVan is Officer-in-Charge of the Office of
Naval Officer Procurement in Charleston, West Virginia. He
is proud to announce the birth of his second son, Michael
Todd DeVan, in January, 1944.

Major Harrison Force English has been in England since
January, 1943, with an Evacuation Hospital.

Lt. Comdr. Ralph Whitley is Flight Surgeon for a Naval
Air Station somewhere in the Pacific. He has been out for
about a year now, and hopes to be sent home within the next
six months.

Lt. John Battle, Marine Corps, USNR, has recently re-
turned from eighteen month duty in the South Pacific with
the Third Marine Divison. His greatest thrill was meeting
his year-old son whom he had never seen, and getting re-
acquainted with his four-old daughter.

Lt. Taylor Jones is in command of an LCI somewhere
in the Pacific, having been in the Naval Reserve since March,
1943.

Layne Ferd is with the armed forces on the Italian front.
He is in a Signal Company attached to the Air Corps.

Lt. Thomas D. Anderson, U.S. Naval Reserve, is stationed
in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Sam Greenwood is practicing law in Coatesville, Penn-
sylvania. Sam will celebrate his fifth wedding anniversary in
August.

1935

William Schuhle, Jr., Class Agent for 1935-A, is teaching
in Kansas City, Missouri. His address is 5123 East 15th
Street, Kansas City.

Lt. Henry Ravenhorst writes from his Army post in the
Signal Corps in Alaska, where the sun shines twenty hours a
day. His home address is 523 South Main Street, Lexington,
Virginia.

Ensign W. C. Orth is at the Armed Guard School, Naval
Training Base, San Diego 36, California. He thinks the Armed
Guard billet is one of the finest in the Navy, and recommends
it highly. Home address: 1775 South Xanthus, Tulsa, Ok-
lahoma.

Lt. Karl Willard, U.S. Navy, is stationed at the Naval
Aviation Supply Depot in Philadelphia, having served previ-
ously at Pearl Harbor. His family have moved to Philadelphia
to be with him. Home address: 3029 Rawle Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Lt. Grier Wallace, Jr., U.S. Army, is teaching at the
Southern Signal Corps School at Camp Murphy, Florida.
His wife and son, Grier, III, are with him.

Lt. Travis Oliver, Jr., is serving in a Torpedo Squadron
based on an aircraft carrier in the South Pacific. Home ad-
dress: 2002 Riverside, Monroe, Louisiana.

T/Sgt. Johnnie Albin Webber volunteered for service
in the armed forces in 1941 and was called for active service
on December 18, 1941. He is now Technical Sergeant sta-

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tioned at Pomona Ordnance Base, Pomona, California. He is
married and has a son a year and a half old. Home address:
411 East Main Street, Salem, Virginia (Please Forward).

Lt. Frederick deRosset Strong, U.S. Navy, has been get-
ting four months schooling at Harvard after eighteen months
service in Newfoundland. Home address: 84 Prescott Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Lt. Gilbert C. McKown has been on actice duty in the
Naval Reserve since October, 1942. He had several months
duty on shipboard before being ordered to service in the
Navy Department in Washington, D. C. He married Gertrude
Reynolds of Berryville, Virginia, on April 19, 1941. Home ad-
dress: 515 West John Street Martinsburg, West Virginia.

Frederick Gilbert Swink is a Lieutenant (s.g.) with the
U.S. Coast Guard and has been at sea since June, 1942. He
has been in Cuba, the Aleutians and the Southwest Pacific.
He married Ester Stokes on April 17, 1943. Home address:
728 Rhode Island Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.

Lt. Charles L. Walker, Jr., U.S. Army, is overseas. His

home address is Franklin Avenue, River Forest, Illinois.

Capt. Alexander K. Lawrence, material officer in a torpedo
bomber squadron at El Toro, Marine Corps Air Station at
Santa Ana, California, recently was promoted to that rank
from First Lieutenant. Home address: 312 North Union Av-
enue, Cranford, New Jersey.

Lt. John D. Spohr, Navy Department, Bureau of Sup-
plies and Accounts, Cleveland, Oh:a. Home address: 2840
East 132nd Street, Apartment 15, Cleveland, Ohio.

Sgt. Benjamin F. Hope, Army Air Corps, entered the Air
Force in April, 1942. He is stationed at the Enid Army Fly-
ing School, Enid, Oklahoma. Home address: Cairo, West
Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Allen M. Harrelson is in the U.S. Navy, “parked
in the office of the Navy Coast Inspector at Chrysler Cor-
poration” in Highland Park, Michigan. Home address: 232
South Short Street, Troy, Ohio.

Lt. (j.g.) William H. Dyer is still doing cartooning, now
for the Navy’s planning division in Norfolk. He is married
and has a small son, John. Home address: 217 East Holston
Avenue, Johnson City, Tennessee.

William Purnell Diggs is a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy,
serving in the Pacific area. Home address: 943 Laurel Ave-

nue, St. Louis, Missouri.

Loyal P. Gassman writes from his Army post in Iran,
where the thermometer often gets as low as 130 degrees in
the summer. His wife and baby live in Freeport, Illinois, at
920 West Stephenson Street.

W. W. Fowlkes, Class Agent for 1935-L, is a member of
the law firm of Bobbitt, Heck, Street and Quintanilla, South
Texas Bank Building, San Antonio, Texas.

Lt. Col. Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr., in May, 1943, was
Staff Judge Advocate, Gulf Coast Training Center, Army
Air Force. He has recently been at Fort Leavenworth taking
the courses at the Command and General Staff School. Home
address: care of E. S. Bumgardner, 23 South Coalter Street,
Staunton, Virginia.

Alex Harwood has been stationed for several months at
the Alexandria Army Air Base, Alexandria, Louisiana, flying

as an instructor with combat training crews on Flying For-
tresses. He is still on combat status and expects to go over-
seas at any time. Home address: Box 478, Williamsburg,
Virginia.

1936

Rev. Walter Lawton, Class Agent for 1936-A, organized
the Hollis Woods Community Church in Queens Borough,
New York City, in 1943, with thirty-nine members. They
now number sixty-two. He was married last Thanksgiving
Day to Ursula Dorothy Ott. Home address: 272 Burns Street,
Forest Hills, New York.

Lt. (j.¢.) Magruder Drake is now on sea duty with the
U.S. Navy. He comes in contact with many Washington and
Lee alumni. Home address: Port Gibson, Mississippi.

Lt. (j.g.) James Earle Hicks is overseas with the U.S.
Coast Guard. His home address is 4207 Seventy-First Avenue,
Hyattsville, Maryland.

Lt. (j.g.) William H. Dyer is working at the Naval Sup-
ply Depot, Norfolk, Virginia. Home address: 3005 East Fifth
Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee.

Ensign Wendell McMinn August, Jr., is working at the
Naval Operating Base, Norfolk, Virginia. Home address: 310
Bessemer Avenue, Grove City, Pennsylvania.

Pfc. Robert F. Middlekauff has been overseas for about
eight months and is now somewhere in Italy. Home address:
112 East Irvin Avenue, Hagerstown, Maryland.

S/Sgt. Benjamin J. Clarkson writes a V-Mail letter from
overseas. His home address is Apt. 1, 4306 North Fairfax
Drive Arlington, Virginia.

Lt. Robert L. Brickhouse is serving with the U.S. Army
Medical Corps, Infantry Division, stationed in the Hawaiian
Islands. He married a girl from Illinois and they have a
boy three months old, whom he has never seen. Home ad-
dress: 507 Biddle Street, Gillespie, Illinois.

Chaplain James H. Price, Jr... USNR, says his job is min-
istering to the spiritual needs of some 2800 Marines in the
mid-Pacific. It is a very challenging piece of work, requiring
all the spiritual grace, ingenuity and physical energy one can
muster. He conducts two services on Sunday, carries on an
extensive program of hospital visitation, manages a library
and interviews men with regard to personal and family mat-
ters. He has been at the same barracks for nine months. He
was married, on Mav 19, to Ruth Gordon Watts. Home ad-
dress: Chase City, Virginia.

Lt. Geerze M. Hawley has been in the U.S. Navy Medi-
cal Corps for two years. He was on the first convoy to
Africa and is now Senior Medical Officer for an F.S.T. Group
in England. Home address: 912 College Avenue, Fort Worth,
Texas.

Lt. (j.g.) Harry Lee Bowman has been at sea since Janu-
ary, 1943. In 1942, he was on the transport which landed the
first Marines in Iceland. He was with the African invasion,
and since then has been in the Southwest Pacific. Home ad-
dress: 739 Albemarle Street, Arlington, Virginia.

T/Sgt. William S. Johnson entered the U.S. Army on
December 15, 1942. He is now serving in England. On Octo-
ber 24, 1943, he was married to May Ligon in Mt. Pleasant,
Tennessee. Home address: 307 Hay Long Avenue, Mt. Pleas-
ant, Tennessee.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Sgt. H. K. Rieger, U.S. Army, is overseas. Home address:
143 West Passaic Avenue, Rutherford, New Jersey.

Lt. (j.g.) Edward A. Turville was commissioned an Ensign
in the fall of 1942; received six months training at Harvard
as Communications Officer. His first assignment was at the
Naval Air Base, Alameda, California. After a brief training
for overseas in California and Hawaii, he received a perma-
nent assignment as Fleet Postal Officer in the Gilberts; staged
mail for Marshall Islands operation. He has a son, born re-
cently, but gives no name or date.

Lt. (j.g.) Edward S. Boze, Jr., is overseas with the U.S.
Navy. Home address: 2211 West Grace Street, Richmond,
Virginia.

Lt. Charles B. Cross, Jr., is with the U.S. Navy at the
Norfolk Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Virginia. Home address:
215 Park Road, Portsmouth, Virginia.

Lt. Frederick D. Pultz, with the Army Air Force, has had
courses in weather observer, cadet meteorology training, in-
telligence school and the school of applied tactics. He is now
assigned to a B-29 group and hopes to be sent overseas
shortly. He was married on February 5, 1944, to Frances
Lynn Ross of Memphis, Tennessee. Home address: Route 5,
Lexington, Virginia.

Lt. Robert Carl Weston is now commanding officer of a
submarine chaser. Home address: 425 Seventy-Second Street,
New York, New York.

Warren E. (Tex) Tilson, Class Agent for 1936-L, is still
manager of McCrum’s in Lexington, Virginia.

Richard Criss is serving in the U.S. Army.
Sidney Ulfelder is living in Mexico City, Mexico.

Joseph Harding is director of the Emporia, Virginia,
Federal Building and Loan Association.

Leigh Allen is managing a cotton plantation near Port
Gibson, Mississippi. He has a son who is four years old.

Oscar Fletcher, Jr., is in the seafood and produce busi-
ness at Sanford, Virginia.

Stuart Miller is working as a factory auditor for Western
Klectric Company at Kearny, New Jersey.

Lt. Comdr. George Rogers Myers is Assistant Medical
Officer aboard the USS Alaska, having received his promo-
tion as of March 1, 1944. He married Nell Fooks, of Preston,
Maryland, in 1940 and they have a son, George Rogers Myers,
III, born March 6, 1944. Home address: Hurlock, Maryland.

Lt. Ben A. Thirkield, USNR, now acting as instructor at
Solomons, Maryland, was decorated for gallantry while com-
manding a group of light surface craft landing New Zealand
troops in the Treasury Islands, south of Bougainville. AlI-
though Lt. Thirkield spent fifteen months in action in the
Pacific, frequently in combat with the enemy, he says he has
never actually seen a Jap. Home address: care of Capt. A.
R. Harvey, 5732 Redwood Lane, Dallas, Texas.

Lt. (j.g.) E. A. Powell is stationed at the Naval Air Sta-
tien, Grosse Ile, Michigan. Home address: 4103 Forest Hills
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Richard M. Gumm is with the Maloney-Davidson Com-
pany, Louisville, Kentucky, which he says is the best whole-
sale liquor company in the United States. His address is 2313
Ashland Avenue, Ashland, Kentucky.

1937

L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, Class Agent for 1937-A, has been
living in Memphis since graduation from Washington and
Lee in 1937. He is in the cotton brokerage business, being a
partner in the firm of F. M. Crump and Company, one of the
largest cotton brokerage firms in the South. He is also a part-
ner in Black Gin Company, which operates cotton gins in
Southeast Missouri and Illinois. For the past two years he
has been president of the Memphis chapter of Washington
and Lee Alumni. He is married and has two sons, Landon
Butler, Jr., and Sydney Butler.

Robert Edward Tushingham is now a Pharmacist Mate
and Assistant Purser with the Merchant Marine Service. He
has been at sea for several months. Home address: 104 Hill-
crest Avenue, Collingswood, New Jersey.

Capt. Donald Reister Moore has been in the Army since
May, 1942, reporting to Tampa, Florida, as a brand-new 2nd
Lieutenant just six days after his daughter was born. He was
stationed at Columbia, South Carolina, Jacksonville, Florida,
and Wilmington, Delaware, before reporting in October, 1943,
to Langley Field, where he is ascistant base intelligence offi-
cer. His address is 618 B Street, Washingion, D. C.

Ben Edward Schull, U.S. Army, is at Camp Davis, North
Carolina. Home address: 705 Sycamore Boulevard, Terre
Haute, Indiana.

Warren A. Cliburn, U.S. Navy, is stationed at the Naval
Hospital at Corona, California. His home is at Euclid and
Kdison Streets, Chino, California.

H. C. Magoon is a Major in the Army Air Corps. Chrono-
logically—in July, 1943, he became Commanding Officer of
the 66th AAF Flying Training Detachment, Morton Field,
Tuskegee Institute, Alabama: in September, 1943, he married
Miss Mary Eugenia Thompson of Montgomery, Alabama:
and in February, 1944, he was promoted to Major. He has
been in Alabama since 1941 and says he is losing some of
his “damyankee” traits and becoming a naturalized rebel.

Major John M. Jones, III, of Sweetwater, Tennessee, was
awarded the Soldier’s Medal for heroism while serving on
special duty with Brigadier General Frank J. Merrill’s Ma-
rauders in Northern Burma on June 9, 1944. The citation
states that the award was made for heroism at Naubum,
Burma, on April 28, 1944, and adds that “with complete dis-
regard for his own safety and at the risk of his life, Major
Jones threw himself upon a fellow officer whose clothing
had been ignited by gasoline and with his bare hands extin-
guished the flames.”

Cpl. Walter G. Thomas was inducted into the U.S. Army
on May 18, 1942; sent to Camp Lee reception center; inter-
viewer in processing inductees for assignment. Home address:
7 West Leland Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Lt. Wiliam C. Wilbur, Jr., U.S. Army Air Force, gradu-
ated from OCS at Miami Beach, April 1, 1944. At the time
he wrote he was attending a specialized school at Chanute
Field, Illinois. Home address: R.F.D. 5, Charleston, South
Carolina.

Philip Weinsier writes from 270 Corbin Place, Brooklyn,
New York.

Lynne Morris Atmar enlisted in the Army Air Force in
June, 1941. He has been on the Galapagos Islands for the
past six months. Home address: Groveton, Texas.

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lt. Kelley E. Reed, Jr., U.S. Army, has been overseas
since October, 1942. He was wounded in action in July, 1943,
in the New Georgia drive and hospitalized in New Zealand
for two months. He rejoined his outfit the latter part of
September, 1943, in the Solomon Islands. Home address:
1714 Kanawha Boulevard, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. Howell W. Roberts completed training at AAF Sta-
tistical School, Harvard, and was sent to Headquarters Air
Transport Command, Washington, D. C. Home address: 102
Fourth Street, Garden City, Long Island, New York.

Lt. Deverton Carpenter has been in the Army for over
two years and is now in England. He has been in Radio In-
telligence since entering the Army. Home address: 404 Al-
leghany Street, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

Lt. Robert C. Hoff has been in the Army over three years.
He had ten months duty in the Aleutians and a short period
in England. His home station is now the Brooklyn Base.
Home address: 3257 North Marietta Avenue, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin.

Lt. Horace Z. Kramer has been stationed at Myrtle Beach
Army Air Field, South Carolina, for over sixteen months,
where he serves as Ordnance Property Officer. Home ad-
dress: 69-10 Fellowstone Boulevard, Forest Hills, New York.

Lt. Walter G. Lehr, Jr., has had three years of service
from buck private to First Lieutenant with the U.S. Army
Medical Corps. He is an instructor in Army Administration
at Camp Grant, Illinois. Home address: 119 Paseo Encinal,
San Antonio, Texas.

Horace Hayes Cluxton, M.D., has been Assistant Sur-
geon, United States Coast Guard at the United States Ma-
rine Hospital, New Orleans, Louisiana. He is now overseas.
We do not have a record of his home address.

Lt. James Knox Tate, U.S. Army Medical Corps, went
into service on April 8, 1944. Home address: 604 West Mar-
ket Street, Bolivar, Tennessee.

Capt. Robert M. Peek, Jr., U.S. Army Air Corps, was
promoted from First Lieutenant to Captain and presented
with the Air Medal and three Oak Leaf Clusters. Asa P-39
Airacobra and P-40 Warhawk pilot and operations officer,
he flew sixty missions during two years in the Hawaian area.
Home address: 4223 South Lookout, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Lt. Norman P. Iler is with the Army Air Forces, Head-
quarters Company, Replacement Depot No. 2, Fort Ord, Cali-
fornia. He has a son, born on May 2, 1944. Home address:
1108 Audubon Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky.

Albert Lustbader has been in various parts of the Carib-
bean area as part of an Intelligence Unit of the Army for
the past two and a half years. He is now back in this country.
He was married on March 26, 1944, to Shirley Schaffer. Home
address: 220 Corbin Place, Brooklyn, New York.

Lt. Charles Jones Walker entered the service on August 5,
1941. He is now “somewhere in Britain.”” His home address is

Lancaster, Kentucky.

Clark B. Winter is in the Army Air Corps. Home address:
Box 1046, Kingman, Arizona.

Colonel George Todd Crowell, Army Air Force, is sta-
tioned “somewhere in England.” He received special com-
mendation from his Commanding General for leading a
flight of four P-38 fighters through rain and mist to keep an

escort date with heavy bombers—to escort them home from
central Germany—his and ten other planes were the only
ones to get through to meet the big ships—flew by instru-
ments. Recently he swept over France and left a railroad
yard and small refinery in flames. He has been the commander
of an Eighth Fighter Command P-39 Lightning Group. He
wears the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal
with four Oak Leaf Clusters. He served in the Panama Canal
Zone and the Pacific Northwest before being transferred to
the European theatre of war. Home address: 4201 West Jack-
son Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois.

Francis D. Crew has changed his adress to Box 177, Ithan.
Pennsylvania.

Fielden Woodward was inducted into the Army, April 12,
1944, and reported to the Reception Center at Fort Thomas,
Kentucky. His home address is care of Ernest Woodward,
Kentucky Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

William T. Long is a Captain in the Infantry, stationed at
Fort McClellan, Alabama, was expecting soon to join a
division for foreign service. Home address: Jerome Hotel,
Mineral Wells, Texas.

Edwin M. Marks, Class Agent for 1937-L, was inducted
into the U.S. Army on January 23, 1944. He is at Camp Stew-
art, Georgia. Home address: 1435 Harbert Avenue, Memphis,
Tennessee.

Lt. Comdr. George Pilcher, Jr., is stationed at Norfolk,
Virginia. Home address: 308 Colonial Avenue, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia.

Capt. I. M. Scott, U.S. Army, Infantry, has received the
Silver Star for gallantry in action; the Purple Heart and the
Combat Infantry Badge for exemplary conduct in combat.
Home address: 23rd Street and Allegheny Avenue, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Tilford Payne, Jr., is in the U.S. Marine Corps. He was
recently promoted to Warrant Officer. Home address: 2315
Cherokee Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky.

Capt. James H. Rice enlisted as a private in May, 1941;
since June, 1942, he has been at Camp Forrest as Assistant
Finance Officer of an Infantry Division. When his letter was
written he was getting ready to move again—destination un-
known. Home address: 5012 S Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Lt. J. P. Baker is serving overseas with the U.S. Army
M<cdical Corps. He participated in the invasion of North Afri-
ca. Home address: 221 St. Andrews Terrace, West Helena.
Arkansas.

(Notes written by Class Agent)

Wally Bernard is living in New York City and is president
of the Bernard Color and Chemical Corporation with offices
at 333 Hudson Street. Wally is married and is 3-A in the draft.

Lt. (j.g-) Amos Bolen, Army Air Corps, went with the
firm of Fitzpatrick, Brown and Davis of Huntington, West
Virginia, when he left school and that firm has luckily been
able to keep Amos with them until he went into service.

Stanley Higgins has been practicing law in Fayetteville,
West Virginia, with the firm of Mahon, Dillon and White
since graduating, and, as would be expected, Jack has been
doing excellently. He is now an Ensign in the U.S. Naval
Reserve.

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Lt. (j.g.) James McClure has locked up his law office for
the duration. He is in the Coast Guard and has been around
a lot on the Atlantic coast. Jim is married and has two sons,
one three years old and the other two months old.

Lt. (j.g.) Harry Moreland enlisted in the Naval Reserve
in December, 1942, and was commissioned an Ensign on
April 27, 1943. He has now been promoted to a Lieutenant
(j.g.). Harry is married to a Staunton, Virgnia, girl and you
can write to him at 801 Parkview, Staunton, Virginia.

Bill Robinson was inducted into the Army last November
and was sent to Fort McClellan, Alabama, for his basic train-
ing. It was there that Bill really got a tough break—one that
would take the heart out of any fighting man—he was sent to
Washington and Jefferson which is in his home town and I
imagine he had to sleep on a soft bed every night and put
up with that good old home cooking. Since then Bill has been
selected as a member of an interviewing team which travels
around interviewing enlisted men.

Ross Crom has been granted a commission in the Naval
Supply Corporation, and was to go to Harvard for training be-
ginning the last of June. Ross was in the department store
business before enlisting in the Navy, so will, no doubt, find
the Supply Corporation right “up his alley.”

Joe Arnold has been accepted for OCS in the Judge Ad-
vocate’s Office and was scheduled to take his training at the
University of Michigan. Joe says that the papers were wrong
in saying that a private gets $50.00 per month, for the boys
like to play poker—that’s Joe’s avocation. Joe was really going
to town with his law practice in Lexington, Kentucky. As a
matter of fact, he was doing so well that the firm of Allen,
Duncan and Duncan was changed to Allen, Duncan, Duncan
and Arnold—he was just about to make a touchdown when
the first quarter ended.

1938

Earl J. (Kit) Carson, Class Agent for the Class of 1938,
received a medical discharge from the Army. He taught and
coached at Dixie Heights School, Covington, Kentucky, last
winter and is now working at the Ft. Mitchell Country Club,
Ft. Mitchell, Kentucky.

Thomas S. Parrott, Jr., was wonded at the Anzio beach-
head in Italy and has received a medical discharge from the
Army. His home address is care of Mrs. T. S. Parrott, New-
nan, Georgia.

S/Sgt. Jack C. Bear is with the U.S. Army Air Corps.
His home address is care of T. L. Bear, 1615 South Hull
Street, Montgomery, Alabama.

Lt. (j.g.) Sam McChesney, Jr., U.S. Navy, trained for
three monthe at Harvard, starting June 21, 1941. On active
duty from September, 1941; Ensign, September, 1941; Lieuten-
ant (j.g.), 1942. Home address: 35 Hillvale Drive, St. Louis,
Missouri. On October 9, 1943, he was married to Miss Edna
Margaret McCorkle of East Berlin, Connecticut, whom he
met while serving as a Navy Supply Officer in the Virgin
Islands. Miss McCorkle was at that time a Navy nurse.

Capt. Paul LeRoy Holden, Jr., is a Flight Commander,
Twin Engine Group. He instructs Second Lieutenants to be-
come instructors. His home address is 2448 Woodmere Drive,
Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

Lt. (j.g.) John E. Neill has been commanding a Naval
gun crew on merchant ships for over a year, and getting

around as all Armed Guard Officers do. He says he has hit
all oceans and at least planted a foot on every continent. His
home address is 464 North Maple Avenue, East Orange, New
Jersey.

Ashton Powell is a Corporal in the U.S. Army. When last
heard from he was at Camp Stewart, Georgia. His home ad-
dress is 113 Harvard Street, Alexandria, Virginia.

Compton Breders, Jr., is with the U.S. Naval Reserve,
Wisconsin General Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin. Home ad-
dress: 821 Eighth Avenue, S.W., Rochester, Minnesota.

Ensign Alphonse Joseph Sherman is at the U.S. Navy
Training School at Princeton. He is the proud father of a
baby girl. Home address: 80 Maple Street, Yonkers, New
York.

Cpl. Anthony Brooks Young is in the Amarillo Army Air
Field Training Group, Amarillo, Texas. Home address: Weis-
singer and Gaulbert Apartments, Third and Broadway, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Lt. Kester Denman, U.S. Navy, is serving in the South
Pacific. He has been “in on the kill” of eleven Jap ships. He
writes that he is the father of a fine boy. Home address: 323
North Raguet Street, Lufkin, Texas.

Fred Eason Waters, Jr., is a Lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps. When last heard from he was in Italy. His home ad-
dress is 205 Liberty Street, Milledgeville, Georgia.

Lt. Chandler Price Berryman, Army Air Corps, is with
the Amphibious Training Command, Pacific Fleet. Home ad-
dress: 405 North Twelfth Street, Fredonia, Kansas.

Ensign Robert M. Basile, U.S. Navy, is serving overseas.
His home address is 930 Bleecker Street, Utica, New York.

Lt. Comdr. Claude L. Gocdman is on sea duty. Home ad-
dress: 405 Chesapeake Avenue, Newport News, Virginia.

John Grant Tomlin is a S/Set., Army Intelligence. He
was in New Guinea when last heard from. Home address:
2025 Handasyde Court, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Capt. Oliver K. Jones is serving in the European theatre
of war. Home address: 403 Church Street, Sweetwater, Ten-
nessee.

Lt. (j.g.) Gurley N. Cox returned to the Armed Guard
Center, New Orleans, Louisiana, to find that he had been pro-
moted to his new rank from Ensign nearly six months ago.
Lt. Cox’s promotion didn’t catch up with him while he was
on an eleven-month trip at sea, which took him to ports in
England, North Africa, Iran, and India, plus a little jaunt
into Central America on which he ran into both enemy
planes and submarines. Home address: 2950 North Market
Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

Lt. John W. Ray, Army Air Forces, has been in Corsica
and North Africa. He lately returned to Corsica from Elba.
Home address: 5223 Reno Road, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Lt. A. Murat Willis, Jr., has been stationed overseas for
scme time. Home address: 19 Garden Street, Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts.

William E. Wiltshire, Jr., gives his address as 2 Westham
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia, but gives no news of himself.

Gilbert Meem is with the Meem-Haskins Coal Corpora-
tion in Bluefield, West Virginia.

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1939

Lt. John B. Pearson is flying anti-submarine patrol in the
Atlantic in the P.B.M. flying boats. He says “pickings are
pretty slim nowadays, compared with 1941.” Home address:
623 Blue Hills Aveue, Hartford, Connecticut.

Lt. Charles K. Latus, U.S. Navy, is stationed somewhere
in the Pacific. Home address: 557 Lakeview Avenue, Rockville
Centre, Long Island, New York.

John J. Davis is a member of the law firm of Davis,
Boehl, Viser and Marcus. His address is 1724 Spring Drive,
Louisville, Kentucky.

Lt. (j.g.) John F. Ganong is serving overseas with the
U.S. Navy. His wife and young son are living in Lexington
for the duration. Home address: 212 Barclay Lane, Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

Charles D. Tolley is a member of the faculty of Wash-
ington and Lee University. He was married on June 24, 1944,
to Miss Dola Graybeal, the marriage taking place in the
Washington and Lee Memorial Chapel.

Major Warren H. Edwards has had foreign service in New
Caledonia, Guadalcanal and the Marshall Islands. He is now
stationed at Camp Pendleton, Ocean Side, California. Home
address: 309 Cherokee Drive, Orlando, Florida.

M/Sgt. Murray Rippe has been in the service, Quarter-
master with the Army Air Force, for two and a half years.
Home address: 326 Westhampton Avenue, Danville, Virginia.

S/Sgt. Benjamin E. Wilson has been overseas with the
U.S. Army Air Corps for two years. His home address is 506
North Mendenhall Street, Greensboro, North Carolina.

Capt. John S. Mehler, Quartermaster, U.S. Army, is over-
seas. Home address: Box 553, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Lt. Joseph C. Murphy is with the Quartermaster Corps
somewhere in England. Home address: 227 Lenox Avenue,
South Orange, New Jersey.

Lt. William Roy Hogan, Jr., is taking his final training
for overseas duty with the Army Air Force. Home address:
700 Broadway, Tyler, Texas.

Pvt. James G. Lamb is with the U.S. Army Field Artil-
lery. Home address: Route 3, Media, Pennsylvania.

Jacques L. Jacobs, U.S. Army, has been serving overseas.
Home address: 1925 Glenwood Road, Brooklyn 30, New York.

Capt. A. Buxton Hobbes is a company commander, U.S.
Marine Corps, Service Battalion, Camp LeJeune, North Car-
olina. He has not entirely recovered from serious wounds
received in Guadalcanal in 1942, and is on limited service.
Home address: 3323 Randall Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

Lt. Charles P. Blackledge has been skipper of a submarine
chaser in the East for the past year. He is now in this coun-
try for a refresher course before getting a new assignment.
Home address: 519 East Seventh Street, El Dorado, Arkansas.

Lt. Philip Grabill, U.S. Army, Infantry, is in the South-
west Pacific. His home address is Woodstock, Virginia.

Sgt. Vance A. Funk, Jr., completed his medical course at
Jefferson Medical School in 1943 and entered the Army in
December, 1943. He has been stationed at Camp Barkeley,
Texas, White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, and is now

at Mann General Hospital, Long Island, New York. Home
address: 82 East Main Street, Huntington, Long Island.

Zalmon H. Garfield is an Ensign in the U.S. Navy and
writes “at sea.” Home address: 1016 Woodrow Avenue, Nor-
folk, Virginia.

Lt. Arthur W. Meyer, U.S. Naval Reserve, has been on
active duty for the last four years. He is now the command-
ing officer on the “best ship in the Navy.” Home address:
3424 Seventy-Second Street, Jackson Heights, Long Island,
New York.

Lt. Goulding W. Swift, Jr., is a First Pilot on a Liberator
in the South Pacific; has received a Silver Star Medal for
bringing in a burning plane, also the Air Medal and several
Oak Leaf Clusters, and on May 5, 1944, the Distinguished
Flying Cross. Home address: care of G. W. Swift, 1303 Arm-
stead Bridge Road, Norfolk, Virginia.

Capt. Asa R. Spakr was graduated April 29, 1944, from an
Officers Advanced Course at the Cavalry School, Fort Riley,
Kansas. Home address: 221 Belmont Avenue, Winchester,
Kentucky.

L. E. Long, Jr., is a Captain in the Air Corps. He is a
bombardier and served through the North African campaign,
receiving the following citations: Air Medal, Purple Heart,
and Distinguished Flying Cross. He is now stationed at Big
Spring, Texas. Home address: Jerome Hotel, Mineral Wells,
Texas.

Lt. (j.g.) J. H. Ward, III, shifted from carrier duty to
cruiser duty. The Admiral on whose staff he served and quite
a few of his friends were also moved, which made it very
pleasant for him. Home address: care of Mrs. J. H. Ward,
1929 Spring Drive, Louisville, Kentucky.

Waller C. Hardy, Jr., is a partner in Waller C. Hardy
Company, P.O. Box 2468, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. Joseph C. Murphy, U.S. Quartermaster Corps, was
commissioned in August, 1942, and is now overseas. Home
address: 227 Lenox Avenue, South Orange, New Jersey.

S. R. Weinsier is in the U.S. Army, but we do not know
anything further as to his rank, station, etc. Home address:
81 Maple Drive, Great Neck, Long Island, New York.

Lt. John W. Wright, Jr., U.S. Navy, gives a Fleet post-
office address in July, 1944. Home address: care of J. W.
Wright, Sr., Elk Refining Company, Kanawha Valley Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

Cpl. John L. Hawkins, II, is attached to DEML Station
Complement at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and assigned
tc duty in the office of the Staff Judge Advocate. He works
on Courts Martial matters and general military justice. Home
address: 1226 Kanawha Valley Building, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Charles W. Midelburg is now a Lieutenant in the Navy
and is Chief Comunications Officer on the Aircraft Carrier,
Kadashan Bay. Home address: Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. Billy Young, reported missing since his plane was shot
down over Holland last May, has survived his third air mis-
hap and is safe, according to a notification to his family from
the War Department. Lt. Young is a prisoner of war in Ger-
many. He wears the Air Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, and
the Purple Heart.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1940

Lt. Lea Booth, after a “breather” in this country, returned
to his regular duties in the Pacific area. Home address: 136
West Main Street, Danville, Virginia.

Lt. Ernest Woodward, II, was awarded the Silver Star
for gailantry. He is overseas with the 16lst Infantry. Home
address: 2324 Saratoga Drive, Louisville, Kentucky.

Lt. Peyton Rice, U.S. Navy, Supply Command, was on
leave in July. He will go to the Supply Corps School, Har-
vard School of Business Administration. Home address: 5012
“S” Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Lt. David K. McNish was married to an Australian girl,
“Val,” in Brisbane, Australia, on May 3, 1942. Mrs. McNish
is now in this country with her son, born on February 10,
1944, and thinks America is just as she had pictured it. Home
address: 809 Euclid Street, Bristol, Virginia.

Lt. Col. Franklin A. Nichols won his wings at Kelly Field
in April, 1941; went to Hawaii in June of the same year and
served there fourteen months; went to Australia in August,
1942; later to New Guinea with a fighter group. He is now
a Lieutenant Colonel, having been promoted from Major on
June 9, 1944. He has been awarded the Silver Star, the Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross with three Oak Leaf Clusters and
the Air Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters. He has been given
a two-months leave at home with his wife and father. He is
now Operations Officer of the Fifth Fighter Command. Home
address: 103 South Okfusee, Wewoka, Oklahoma.

Lt. (j.g.) Hal B. Watterson is cn a submarine chaser
somewhere in the Atlantic. He is now the executive officer
on his ship. His home address is Rogersville, Tennessee.

Lt. Homer D. Dickens, U.S. Army, is somewhere in Eng-
land. Home address: DeWitt, Arkansas.

(Notes written by Class Agent, Gil Gardner)

It’s now Captain Ross V. Hersey, who is summering at
Valley Forge General Hospital, Phoenixville, Pennsylvania,
having plastic surgery done after winning the Silver Star,
Purple Heart, and Croix de Guerre in Africa. Ross is married
to Betty Lou Bush, and expects to teach at Staunton Military
Academy next fall. Home address: 200 Maple Avenue, Way-
nesboro, Virginia.

Calloway (Taxi) Pollard is a First Lieutenant stationed
in Del Rio, Texas. Home address: Brookwood, Burlington,
North Carolina.

Lat Young is a full-fledged doctor with the commission of
First Lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps. Home address:
2906 Guilford, Baltimore, Maryland.

Lt. Ed Miller writes from the South Pacific saying that
twenty-two months sea duty accounts for the fact that he is
still single. Home address: 207 West Irvin Avenue, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Hamilton (Diz) Disbrow is with the Navy, holding the
rating of Parachute Rigger, 2nd class, stationed in South
America. Home address: 10 Woodside Road, Madison, New
Jersey.

Ralph (Tex) Baker writes that he is ready for a boat ride
now that he has finished Duke’s medical course and has been
commissioned a First Lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps.
Home address: 1903 Main Street, Newberry, South Carolina.

Hans Schmitt is going through the Officers Candidate
School at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, where one of the “tech” offi-
cers is Lt. Jack Watson, who recently completed the course
himself. Hans’ home address is 6136 Greenwood Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.

Merv Luria is a First Lieutenant in the Ordnance branch
of the Eighth Air Force, “somewhere in England.” He mar-
ried Evelyn Paradise of Atlanta, Georgia, in May, 1942. His
business address is 1924 Lincoln Liberty Building, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Ganahl Walker, despite the fact that he’s a First Lieuten-
ant in the Air Corps, hasn’t gotten far from his native Texas
yet, being stationed in Waco. He is married and has one
child. Home address: 406 Yerby Circle, Corpus Christi, Texas.

Lt. (j.g.) Brent H. (Bud) Farber is based in Norfolk. He
is married and has a daughter, Brenda Field Farber. Home
address: 614 University Parkway, Baltimore, Maryland.

Sgt. Oscar Ennenga, Jr., is stationed at Camp Blanding,
Florida, with the Infantry. He is married to the former Mar-
ian L. Eastman of Albany. Oscar says he ran into Leo Rein-
artz, Lt., A.U.S., in Nashville last November, and a month
later had lunch with Lt. Gus Faulk, ISMC. Home address:
717 West Stephenson Street, Freeport, Illinois.

Cpl. Solomon Diamond now has an overseas address. His
home address is 645 Day Avenue, S.W., Roanoke, Virginia.

1941
(Notes written by Class Agent)

Class Agent Paul D. Brown is practicing law with the
firm of Gloth & Gloth, Court House Square, Arlington, Vir-
ginia. He would like to have the addresses of William Alexan-
dcr, Bill Boggs, Lt. (j.g.) Nelson A. (Nellie) Park, and Gor-
don E. von Kalinowski, from whom letters have been returned.

Lt. (j.g.) Chester Ecclestcn, after having been in the as-
sault landing in North Africa, is now the navigation officer
on the U.S.S. George Clymer. He reports that Bill Hummers
and Bob Russell were each married on February 29, 1944, and
that he believes Gus Heatwole is headed for the States from
the Pacific. Home address: 144 Ricardo Place, Hackensack,
New Jersey.

Lt. Harry G. Kincaid and Anne Lamb Walton were mar-
ried on May 17, 1944, in Jacksonville, Florida, where Harry
is stationed. Home address: Fire Creek, West Virginia.

Leland H. Lord has been employed as a draftsman and
junior machine designer at Vega Aircraft Corporation in
Burbank, California, since 1940. His address is 719 North
Lincoln Street, Burbank, California.

Capt. Richard W. Smith, U.S. Marine Corps, has been
in foreign service since August, 1942, He was hospitalized in
California for some weeks and was on furlough at his home
in Lexington, Virginia, in July.

Ist Lt. Richard L. (Dick) Saunders has returned from
North Iceland, been through OCS, promoted, and has an-
nounced the birth of a son, Richard, III, last October. Home
address: 517 Teaneck Road, Ridgefield Park, New Jersey.

Lt. Henry B. Wilder, U.S. Navy, is executive officer of
the U.S.S. Clamour. He has run across many Washington
and Lee men in the last three years. Home address: 518 West
Dover Court, Davenport, Iowa.

[ 28 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Major Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr., has recently been
ordered to Marine Headquarters in Washington. His home
address is 2949 Macomb Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert C. Peery has just completed a tour of
duty on the U.S.S. Milwaukee and reports seeing Tom Martin
and many other Washington and Lee men. Home address:
North Tazewell, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) M. D. (Mort) Barker, Jr., has been out of the
ccuntry more than a year and a half in the Pacific. Home ad-
dress: Chatham Road, R.R. 4, Springfield, Illinois.

Pfc. George L. Gassman, Army Air Force, is in England,
and has seen another Phi Kap, Mason Hendrickson, ’41,
there. Home address: 1170 West Stephenson Street, Freeport,
Illinois.

Lt. (j.g.) (Gus) Stombock is in England. Before leaving
the United States he was in touch with Bill Schultheis in
Pyote, Texas, and through The Alumni Magazine, met Jerry
Shamhart in his same barracks. Home address: 421 Walnut
Avenue, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Lt. Ken Van de Water, Jr., USNR, is in the Central Pa-
cific and has seen many Washington and Lee men: Edgar
Shannon, John Stowers, Ed Tourville, Dan Arnold, Bob Loeb,
Latham Weber, Andy White, Larry Galloway, John Preston,
Coach Jack Hennemier, Joe Ochsie and Jock Sutherland.
Home address: 1602 Brandon Avenue, Petersburg, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Charlie Hobson, USNR, is practicing law, via
the military route, as prosecutor or recorder in Summary
Courts Martial aboard ship. He has seen Ben Wakefield and
Johnny Preston recently. George Melville is aboard the same
carrier as a flyer. Home address: 219 Shelby Street, Frank-
fort, Kentucky.

Lt. Aubrey A. Houser promises a class letter from Ran-
dolph Field, Texas. Home address: 3405 Hawthorne Avenue,
Richmond, Virginia.

Capt. Tom S. Brizendine, USMC, has been “down here”
over two years and is looking forward to the time when he
can see the States again. Home address: 210 North Main
Street, Greenville, Kentucky.

Lt. Al Fleishman is back from the Pacific and at the end
of May was on his way to Harvard for instruction in ad-
vanced Naval Industrial Accounting for a two to four months
course. While temporarily in Philadelphia he saw Grady
' Forgy and Forbes Hancock. Home address: 645 West Whit-
ner Street, Anderson, South Carolina.

Ernest Echols is in England, but we have no information
as to service, etc. Home address: 330 Sherwood Avenue,
Staunton, Virginia.

Capt. Archie W. Hill, Jr., Thunderbolt pilot, has seen duty
in England and lately, downed enemy planes. He has com-
pleted over 67 successful missions, and from news in his
father’s letter and enclosed clippings, he has been awarded an
Air Medal and ten Oak Leaf Clusters and the Distinguished
Flying Cross for drawing enemy fire enabling friendly air-
craft to escape and resulting in a successful sweep with the
destruction of 36 enemy aircraft. He is now recuperating from
pneumonia in Italy. Home address: Longwood, Huntsville,
Alabama.

Lt. Charles F. Bagley, Jr., is in the ferry command and his
work is all on foreign deliveries. Home address: Petersburg
Road, Fayetteville, Tennessee.

Lt. Latham L. Thigpen, Jr., married Frances Washington
of Crozet, Virginia, on April 24, 1943. He is an aerial navigator
serving as flying instructor at Selman Field, Monroe, Louisi-
ana. Home address: 3309 Park Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Sgt. Clinton Van Vliet is at Camp Cook, California, hop-
ing for a transfer to the air forces. Home address: 1080 Nich-
olson Avenue, Lakewood, Ohio.

Lt. Herbert M. Woodward, Jr., maried Helen Jordan of
San Antonio, Texas, and Norfolk, Virginia, on June 6, 1942,
at Cambridge, Massachusetts. For eighteen months Herb was
Navy Purchasing Officer in Sydney, Australia, but is back in
the United States for a belated honeymoon. Home address:
1134 Larchmont Crescent, Norfolk, Virginia.

Donald M. (Pete) Buchholz has been stationed at Fort
Belvoir, Virginia, not far from Washington and his wife.
Home address: 3031 Sedgwick Street, Washington, D. C.

Lt. Herbert Van Voast was married to Jane Simpson of
Hollins College. Home address: 409 South Market Street,
Johnstown, New York.

Lt. Jean S. Friedberg, USNR, is the proud father of a six
months old sen. Home address: Route 4, Buechel, Kentucky.

Lt. John D. Durham was married to Victoria Forbes of
California in August, 1943. He has been commander of a
headquarters battery, but hopes for combat duty. Home ad-
dress: 2 Roselle Avenue, Pleasantville, New Jersey.

Lt. (j.g.) A. Forbes Hancock has been stationed in Phila-
delphia. Home address: 4004 Lasher Road, Drexel Hill, Penn-
sylvania.

Macey H. Rosenthal has been in V-12 at the School of
Medicine, University of Virginia, with internship at Johns
Hopkins beginning this October. Home address: 106 Lee
Circle, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Ensign Macauley Howard has attended Sub-Chaser Train-
ing Center and after other specialized training is waiting for
a ship and the active duty for which he has been prepared.
Home address: 2897 Thirty-Sixth Place, N.W., Washing-
ton, DC.

Robert Edmund (Buzz) Lee, was at sea in the North
Atlantic for two months, after over a year of teaching at
Midshipman’s School. Home address: 1035 Emerson Road,
Park Hills, Covington, Kentucky.

Sgt. Kenneth Moxley is in England with the Army Air
Force. Home address: Fort Hill, Charleston, West Virginia.

Recently promoted to full Lieutenant, Bill Morgan, USNR,
has returned from thirteen months sea duty in the Atlantic
and Gulf of Mexico and will soon be an executive officer
aboard a Fleet Minesweeper. Home address: 1468 Vinton Av-
enue, Memphis, Tennessee.

Capt. F. K. Knust, U.S. Marine Corps, is serving overseas.
Home address: 409 Mary Louise Drive, San Antonio, Texas.

S/Sgt. Thomas S. Tuley writes of an enjoyable leave after
nearly three years at Sheppard Field, Texas, with new orders
expected soon. Home address: 403 Jarvis Lane, Louisville,
Kentucky.

Jim Norton is at Jefferson Medical College and expects
his orders will include internship in Buffalo, New York, next
spring. Home address: 471 Fillmore Avenue, East Aurora,
New York.

[ 29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ist Lt. William J. (Bill) Longan writes that Lt. (j.g.)
Gene Chamness is in the South Pacific and Compton Broders
an intern at Wisconsin General Hospital. Bill, while in the
Dental Corps, seems to be drilling his men a la foot only.
Home address: Park Lane, Glenbrooke Hills, R.F.D. 2, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Stanley Parker McGee is a Flying Officer in the RCAF,
flying a Mosquito Bomber in an intruder squadron. Home ad-
dress: 2511 Carolina, Louisville, Kentucky.

Lt. (j.g.) W. P. (Bill) Ames, USNR, is in the Pacific. His
home address is 638 North Jackson Street, Arlington, Virginia.

Ensign Richard H. Pinck, U.S. Navy, is serving overseas.
His home address is 230 East Frederick Street, Staunton,
Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Charles H. Chapman, U.S. Navy, is serving as
Assistant Gunnery Officer on his ship. He is on duty in Italy.
He was married in December to Miss Martha Farmer of
Dothan, Alabama.

Lt. Robert S. Junger, U.S. Army Air Forces, is now put-
ting to good use all his months of training. His home address
is 680 West End Avenue, New York, New York.

ist Lt. Kiah Thornton Ford is in the Quartermaster Corps,
U.S. Army. He married Helen W. Watts and they have a son,
Kiah Thornton Ford, III. Home address: 2717 Rivermont
Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Lt. Richard Sandstrom, Jr., is with the U.S. Army, Ord-
nance, stationed at Camp McCain, Mississippi. Home address:
Box 21, Lebanon Springs, New York.

Capt. Neumon Horne Taylor is overseas with the Army
Air Forces. Home address: 275 Tilton Road, Memphis,
Tennnessee.

Lt. Walter D. Harrod graduated on December 10, 1943,
from Quartermaster OCS. He was stationed at the School
for Special Service at Washington and Lee in January, 1944.
Home address: 30 South Franklin Avenue, Valley Stream,
Long Island, New York.

Lt. Sam O. Pruitt, Jr., USNR, is performing the execu-
tive officer functions of a shipping control officer and is in
Havana. Home address: Box 147, Wilmington, North Caro-
lina.

Lupton Avery is now a Captain in the Field Artillery, U.S.
Army. He is in the thick of things in New Guinea. Home ad-
dress: Riverview, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Peter S. Barrow, Jr., Class Agent for 1941-L, is practicing
law in Summerville, West Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) George Murray Smith, Jr., is on active duty out
of New York. His home address is Richmond, Kentucky.

Ralph H. Keehn has been a Captain in the Army Intelli-
gence for eighteen months. His home address is 158 Chicago
Street, Valparaiso, Indiana.

Rufus H. Shumate is a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army, Cav-
alry, 22nd Company, Rev. Sq., San Rafael, California. Home
address: Pearisburg, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert G. Barr, Jr., has been aboard a carrier
in the Pacific for nearly a year. His home address is 40th
Street, Virginia Beach, Virginia.

Louie A. Paterno was given a medical discharge from the
United States Army on September 10, 1943. He is practicing
law in Charleston, West Virginia, with offices in the Security
Building.

Ensign Allen T. Snyder, after attending Naval Ordnance
School at Harvard, has been in Washington occupying the
seat of a bureaucrat. He expected to go in training for months,
after which he hopes to be sent overseas. Home address: 201
South Easton Road, Glenside, Pennsylvania.

Lt. (j.g.) Clifford Bolles Curtis, Naval Air Corps, is now
stationed at the United States Naval Air Station, Miami,
Florida. His home address is 2544 Southwest 19th Terrace,
Miami, Florida.

Capt. Haskell T. Dickinson is Assistant Personnel Adju-
tant, Headquarters, The Engineering School, Fort Belvoir,
Virginia. Home address: 45 Edgehill Road, Little Rock, Ar-
kansas.

Capt. John W. Weathers, Jr., has been promoted from the
rank of First Lieutenant at Courtland Army Air Field, where
he is Post Rail Transportation Officer. Home address: care
of Rev. John W. Weathers, Route 1, Lexington, Virginia.

Lt. Richard M. Herndon, U.S. Army, has been overseas
for the past nine months, first in England and now in Nor-
mandy. Home adress: 1 College Lane, Haverford, Pennsyl-
vania.

Lt. T. C. Buford, after training at Army Quartermaster
School, Harvard University, is stationed at the Norfolk Army
Base, Norfolk, Virginia. Home address: Glendora, Mississippi.

Lt. (j.g.) Keith McMurran has been in the Mediterranean
area for sixteen months. His entire service has been with the
Amphibious Forces and thinks it is a fascinating type of
warfare. He is now Flag Lieutenant, which is the Navy’s
version of aide-de-camp.

Lt. William Buchanan, USNR, is on shore duty outside
the country. He was in South America for a year and a half.
After a leave of about a month in the States he sailed for his
new assignment before Easter. Home address: 448 Avondale
Drive, Danville, Virginia.

Lt. Donald L. Stein is in an Infantry Division at Fort
Lewis, Washington. Home address: 235 Hawthorne Avenue,
Glencoe, Illinois.

Lt. B. F. Ashcroft, U.S. Navy, is now overseas. Home ad-
dress: 503 Oak Avenue, Sulphur Springs, Texas.

1942

Robert T. (Bobby) Vaughan, Class Agent for the Class of
1942, is an investigator for the War Food Administration,
1017 Glenn Building, Atlanta 3, Georgia. His job requires al-
most constant travel.

Lt. (j.g.) Tom Alonzo Clark, on leave after service in the
Pacific, was a visitor to the campus in July. He will go to
the Supply Corps School, Harvard Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration. Home address: 1391 Euclid Avenue,
N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

Cpl. Junior B. Nestor has been in the service for over
two years and has spent considerable time in Africa and in
Italy. He has been married over two years and his new home
address is 338% Clay Street, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

[ 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lt. (j.g.) Daniel C. Lewis was teaching at Notre Dame
until last September, when his orders were received for over-
seas duty. Since the first of the year he has been assistant
navigator. He says there is very little of the North Atlantic
that he hasn’t seen. His home address is 809 West Angela
Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana.

Lt. Arthur B. Koontz, Jr., Naval Air Corps, is an instruct-
or at Bronson Field, Pensacola, Florida. His home address is
Burkwood, South Hills, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Rebert C. Walker is a Navy Communications
Officer. His home address is 110 McDowell Street, Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

Donald S. Carnahan, Jr., entered the University of Pitts-
burgh, Medicine, U.S. Navy, V-12, in the fall of 1941. The
following spring he was commissioncd in the Naval Reserve
as Ensign H-V(P) on inactive duty. He resigned his com-
mission and reenlisted as an apprentice seaman, in which sta-
tus he remains, and continues his medical studies at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh. He was married on December 23, 1943,
te Gloria Krey of Richmond.

Ensign C. Tom Fuller has been on the North Atlantic as
Anti-Submarine Warfare Officer on a Destroyer Escort. His
home address is Willow Brook Farm, Catasaqua, Penn-
sylvania.

Cpl. Richard A. Brunn has been at Camp Tyson, Alabama,
training in barrage balloons. He expected to be sent overseas
shortly. Home address: care of Mr. John F. McKeen, 132
East 72nd Street, New York 21, New York.

lst Lt. William C. Jones was in the Marshall Islands for
two months. He has been made Reconnaissance Officer and
Aerial Observer of his battery and is now going to a Naval
Aviation School. His home address is 3369 Runnymede Place,
Washington, D. C.

ist Lt. Thomas Ramsay Taylor has been on a tour of the
Pacific since November, 1942; Samoa, New Zealand, Guadal-
canal, Bougainville, and various and sundry way-stations. He
has met many Washington and Lee men. “... Then came the
day we went to get shot at on Bougainville. Dick Spindle’s
transport landed us in port, and Snyder and I met on the
beach in the first wave.Monks was there, and Bob Schultz,
tossing his 81 mm. mortars around. We had the usual gay
time getting bit by mosquitoes and heckled by el nippo. Mike
Crocker’s 75’s banged away off and on. There wasn’t much
that was pleasant on Bougainville—fifty-five days—and we
didn’t regret leaving the Island Christmas morning.” Ram-
say’s home address is 112 East Lake Avenue, Baltimore 12,

Maryland.

Morris Atwood is studying medicine at Washington Uni-
versity under the Army program. His address is AST SU
3708, 4949 Forest Park, St. Louis 8, Missourt.

Henry M. Yonge is doing Army pre-medical work at Tu-
lane University, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Edward Korry is with the United Press in its New York
Bureau. His address is 242 East 19th Street, New York City.

Lt. John A. Embry, Jr., United States Army Air Forces,
is piloting a Flying Fortress out of England, over “Festering
Europe.” He was married on July 17, 1943, to Jane Lee Bent-
ley of San Francisco, California, and Stevens College, Mis-
souri. Home address: 1001 California Street, San Francisco,

California.

Lt. (j.g.) E. C. Alevizatos has been in New Guinea for
the past ten months with the Amphibious Forces. He is the
skipper of an L.T.C., “one of those ugly water bugs, the
work horses of both the Army and the Navy.” Home address:
170 East 33rd Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

Ist Lt. Benton C. Tolley has been promoted to the rank
of Captain at Selman Field, Monroe, Louisiana, largest aerial
navigation school in the AAF Central Flying Training Com-
mand, where he is a flight commander at the AAF Instruct-
or’s School (Navigator).

Lt. (j.g.) E. M. Boyd has been in South America for eight
months, flying for the Naval Air Corps. Home address: 112
Castlewood Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

W. D. Bradley attended the Civil Pilot Training Program
at the University of Georgia. Leaving there, he taught Royal
Air Force and Army Air Force cadets primary flying for
fifteen months at Souther Field. He hopes to be enlisted in
the Air Transport Command in September.

Lt. Rcebert F. Schultz has recently returned to this country
after fifteen months in the South Pacific. He was in on the
original landing and beachhead operations on Bougainville.
He picked up a tropical disease in Samoa and is now instruct-
ing officer candidates at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Home
address: 722 Birchard Avenue, Fremont, Ohio.

Capt. John L. Campbell, Jr., has recently returned from
over a year in the South Pacific. He joined an Infantry regi-
ment in July, went to California in the fall and overseas that
winter. His first few months were happy ones in New Zeal-
and, but soon they went up into the islands and stayed until
Bougainville was secured early in 1944. He returned to the
States in March, had a leave at home, and upon reporting for
duty came down with malaria, jaundice, and “a few such
things.”” He is now at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Home
address: Lexington, Virginia.

Louis S. Rehr is a Captain in the Army Air Corps, now
serving overseas. His home address is Madison, Ohio, care of
Mr. Paul A. Rehr.

Lt. Lawrence J. Fisher is stationed at Greenville Army
Air Base in Greenville, South Carolina, having just returned
from overseas where he was in the North African-European
theatre of operations for nine months. He was shot down over
Benevento, Italy, and severely injured due to burns. He re-
ceived campaign ribbons, the Air Medal and the Purple
Heart. At Greenville he is acting as an instructor in B-25’s.

Robert Rosenfeldt is working in a United States Labora-
tery under Dr. L. H. Farinholt (Washington and Lee chem-
istry professor on leave). He was married in April, 1944, to
Phyllis Smith of Pittsburgh. His home address is 1819 Wight-
man Street, Pittsburgh 17, Pennsylvania.

Cpl. John B. MacBride wrote from Ardmore Army Air
Pase, Ardmore, Oklahoma, where he was in training. Home
address: 428 Wellington Road, Narberth, Pennsylvania.

Lt. R. J. Mooney graduated form M.A.C., O.C.S. at
Camp Barkley, Texas. He expected to be overseas within a
short time after his letter was written. Home address: 1201
Denmark Road, Plainfield, New Jersey.

Capt. James L. Jordan, Jr., writes an interesting letter
from overseas, with the First Division of Marines. He says
that Charlie Didier, now a Lieutenant, Johnny Goode, ’32,
and Colin Baxter, 42, have recently joined the First Division

[ 31 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of Marines. Mentions that Lt. Chic Pierce, 42, who was
wounded in New Britain operations, is now doing okay. He
sends his “best” to any of the old gang. Home address: 331
Martha Avenue, Mansfield, Louisiana.

Lee D. Parker is with the War Department as Civil En-
gineer at Fort Monroe. His address is 313 Mallory Avenue,
Hampton, Virginia.

Reginald H. Pettus has been “missing in action over Ger-
many” since May 12, 1944.

Walter G. Downie was training for the Army Air Force
when his letter was written in March. His home address is
Box 297, Sanderson, Texas.

Cpl. Whitt Schultz is Co-Editor of WINGS at Chanute
Field. He has passed the OCS board and is awaiting call.
His home address is 1007 Ridgewood Place, Highland Park,
Illinois.

Ralph H. Stewart has been working with General Chemi-
cal Company in Cleveland, Ohio, and doing graduate work at
Case College. His address is 32 Montgomery Street, Rhine-
beck, New York.

Robert Gordon Thach, Jr., is a Lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps. He is an AAF Liberator Pilot. Home address: 2101
Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C.

Ist Lt. Thomas B. Nelson has recently returned to this
country after foreign service. He is a B-17 Flying Fortress
bombardier, flew 26 missions during one year in the Euro-
pean theatre and is credited with the destruction of one ene-
my aircraft. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross,
the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters and a Presiden-
tial Unit Citation. As bombardier of the Flying Fortress
“Happy Daze,” he was shot down in the sea after a raid on
Keil, Germany. By various means he finally returned safely
to England. Home address: 106 South DeSoto Street, Port
Tampa City, Florida.

George Brooke is now a Second Lieutenant, having grad-
uated from the Field Artillery OCS on April 22, 1944; as-
signed as a technical officer to the Field Artillery School,
Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to work with one of the officer candi-
date classes. His address is 612 Garfield Avenue, Lawton,
Oklahoma.

Lt. (j.g.) Leon Worms, U.S. Coast Guard, says he can’t
say much, but he’s “pushin’ the same ship around the same
ocean.”” Home address: 113 South Baton Rouge Road, Vent-
nor City, New Jersey.

Lt. Dan R. Justice has been in the Southwest Pacific for
the past ten months, serving with the U.S. Marines. He has
been in one major campaign and several smaller ones. He
mentions having seen “Soupy” Campbell (now back in this
country), Mike Crocker, Calvin Baxter and Herb Smith.
His home address is 203 South Liberty Street, Milledgeville,
Georgia.

Lt. (j.g.) Louis Cameron Greentree, Jr., is serving with
the Seventh Fleet somewhere in the Pacific. Home address:
3102 Monument Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Richard B. Spindle, III, spent a year in the
South Pacific, came back to the States in December, 1943, and
received a 30-day furlough. He has now returned to his ship.
His wife, the former Miss Katherine Anderson, of Norfolfk,
is living in Coronado, California.

Lt. Adrian Bendheim, U.S. Army Air Corps, is stationed
at Corry Field, NATC, Pensacola, Florida. Home address:
2810 Monument Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) L. A. (Pete) Pridham writes from “somewhere
in the Mediterranean.” He is driving a very fast moving Air-
sea Rescue Boat. He was married on May 1, 1943, to Clemence
Vivrett of Dallas, Texas. Home address: 212 Nesbit Terrace,
Irvington, New Jersey.

Green Rives, Jr., has been in the Army Air Corps Train-
ing Corps, stationed at Texas A. & M. He expected to be
shipped to an air base for line training. Home address: 417
Washington Avenue, Mansfield, Louisiana.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert F. Hunter has been in the Navy since
July, 1942. He was at Corpus Christi, Texas, for advanced
training and graduated in March, 1943, and was assigned to
instructor’s duty at Corpus Christi. He was married to Dot
Flora, of Roanoke, on December 20, 1943, at the chapel on
the Naval Base. His address is 146 Tompkins Street, Corpus
Christi, Texas.

Lt. Paul C. Thomas, Jr., graduated from the Infantry
School at Fort Benning, Georgia, on May 2, 1943, standing
first in his class. On May 5, 1943, he was married to Mary
Beth Wood of Bluefield, West Virginia. He is now overseas.
Home address: Happy Valley Farm, R.F.D. 1, Box 405, Blue-
field, West Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) John W. Garrow, Jr., entered Navy training
school in August, 1942. He has been at the U.S. Naval Air
Station, Key West Florida, since January, 1943. Home ad-
dress: 19 Courtland Place, Houston, Texas.

Ensign William F. Moffett is serving on an Army trans-
port vessel in the South Pacific. Before this he was on Army
escort duty for fourteen months in the Caribbean. Home ad-
dress: Washington, Virginia.

A/C Charles H. Lanier expected to graduate from Fred-
erick Army Air Field on June 27, 1944. Home address: Box
474, Letheridge, Alberta, Canada.

Lt. Colin T. Baxter is serving overseas with the First Ma-
rine Division. He was married on October 2, 1943, to Faith
Fromhold of New Rochelle, New York, at Oceanside, Cali-
fornia. Home address: 501 Pelhamdale Avenue, Pelham Ma-
nor, New York.

Lt. (j.g.) Thomas S. Sweeney writes from the Admiralty
Islands, on June 1, that he had received the News Letter, and
there are three items which contribute in a major way to the
happiness of boys out there: news from parents, news from
home, and news from their Alma Mater. His contingent was
one of the first to land after taking over from the Japs. In
fact, there were several hundred left which the Army was
systematically exterminating. Home address: care of Mrs.
W. S. Crooks, 805 Madison Avenue, New York, New York.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert F. Campbell, Jr., gives a Fleet postoffice
address out of San Francisco. His home address is 6 Pearson
Drive, Asheville, North Carolina.

; Cpl. Alex M. Hitz, Jr., is in the Army Air Corps, sta-
tioned in the vicinity of Calcutta, India. Home address: 2520
Brookwood Drive, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

David P. Pardee is a Gunnery instructor at Kingman
Army Air Field, Kingman, Arizona. Home address: 134 Long
Hill Street, Springfield, Massachusetts.

[ 32

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lt. Raymond B. Whitaker, U.S. Army, is somewhere in
the South Pacific. Home address: 800 Caroline Street, Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia.

Cpl. Garland Harwood is a radio operator in New Guinea.
Home address: 1647 West Grace Street, Richmond, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Ned H. Brower is with the Amphibious Force,
U.S. Navy, overseas. Home address: 3719 Reading Road,
Crescent Apartments, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Michael W. Lau, U.S. Navy Medical Corps, is a student
at Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut. Home
address: 4 Oval Court, Bronxville, New York.

Lt. Truman Donoho, Jr., U.S. Army, Ordnance, writes
from somewhere in New Guinea. He says the spot in which
he is located has a perfect climate and the scenery is com-
parable to the “ole” Blue Ridge. He is a ground officer in
the Air Corps and his position is Squadron Ordnance Officer.
He says he hasn’t seen a white woman in seven months.

Lt. (j.g.) William John Daniel is with the Supply Corps,
U.S. Navy. He says he is stationed where he has a pretty
good view of what is called “The Greatest Show on Earth.”
Home address: New Albany, Mississippi.

T/Sgt. John Martire has been in the Army since a month
after graduation. He is now in England doing classification
work, assigned to a replacement battalion. Home address:
257 Eastland Avenue, Pelham, New York.

Richard Wallace Ebe says he is still with Gulf, but has
been made Assistant of the Employee—Company Magazine.
His address is 2363 Sebring Place, Pittsburgh 21, Pennsyl-
vania.

Ray D. McGill is employed at Wright Aercnautical. His
home is at 15 Birchwood Road, Glen Ridge, New Jersey.

Sgt. John L. Dorsey, Jr., U.S. Army (Infantry), was on
maneuvers in West Virginia in May and the first part of June.
Home address: South Main Street, Henderson, Kentucky.

Sidney Isenberg, U.S. Army Medical Corps, is still on in-
active duty at the University of Georgia Medical School,
Augusta, Georgia. Home address: 831 Fifteenth Street, Au-
gusta, Georgia.

Lt. Thomas M. Cox writes from overseas, but gives no
news of himself. Home address: 284 Santa Ana Avenue, Long

Beach, California.

Robert W. Root has been promoted from Ensign to Lt.
(j.g.) and also from the single to the married status in the
past year. He is attached to the Photographic Science Labora-
tory, U.S. Naval Air Station, Anacosta, D. C. His address
is 149 Galveston Place, S.W., No. 4, Washington 20, D. C.

Lt. Richard Hill Turner, III. U.S. Army Air Force, was
assigned to the Army Airways Communication System, E]-
gin Field, Florida, as assistant officer in charge of AACS fa-
cilities. Home address: 301 West Gonzales Street, Pensacola,
Florida.

Lt. Charles P. Didier has been overseas since August,
1943. He was made Battalion Adjutant recently. Home ad-
dress: care of Mrs. C. P. Didier, Lexington, Virginia.

Robert L. Pinck is in the U.S. Army Medical Corps Re-
serve at Duke University. Home address: 339 East 38th Street,
Paterson, New Jersey.

Lt. Robert Morris Lawrence, U.S. Army Air Corps, writes
from North Africa. Home address: 18 East Monroe Street,
Phoenix, Arizona.

Ensign F. K. Rippetoe, U.S. Navy, was in the invasion
of France, going in shortly after H hour, when the battle
on the beach was at its height. They had some narrow escapes.
He was in the same flotilla as Stan Carlsson, who also came
out unscathed. Ensign Rippetoe was married in June, 1943,
to Marjorie Hetz. Home address: 1582 Quarrier Street, Char-
leston, West Virginia.

Lt. J. Aubrey Matthews, on leave after service in North-
ern Solomons, was a visitor to the campus in July. He will
go to the Supply Corps School, Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration. Home address: Broadnax, Virginia.

Lt. Robert M. Lawrence is in India and says the monsoon
is keeping them pretty well under water. Traveling in a G.I.
truck is complicated by contending with sacred cows, goats,
rickshaws and natives. This in the streets and highways, but
in the hotels you find rich Hindus and Moslems together
with Europeans and servicemen and women of all nationali-
ties. He also saw service in North Africa in the U.S. Army
Air Corps. Home address: 18 East Monroe Street, Phoenix,
Arizona.

Lt. John H. Peacock has been on active duty with the
Southwest Pacific Fleet as a specialist in photographic inter-
pretation (Naval Aeronautics). He was a visitor to the cam-
pus in July, and will be at Photographic Interpretation Cen-
ter at Anacosta, D. C. Home address: 12 West Irving Street,
Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Lt. (j.g.) Charles A. Lemkuhl is with the U.S. Navy in
the South Pacific. Home address: 4307 Virginia Avenue, S.E.,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Pfc. Raymond R. Russell is now stationed in New Guinea.
Home address: 309 West Ashby Street, San Antonio, Texas.

Pfc. Robert S. Leake is a medical student, AST, Univer-
sity of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio. Home address: 14 Caro-
lina Avenue, Fort Thomas, Kentucky.

Pfc. Andrew S. Lanier is a student in the Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

Russell G. Browning is an Industrial Engineer for the
Continental Screw Company and Hy-Pro Tool Company of
New Bedford, Massachusetts. He has been married four years
and has a daughter, Linda, 2 years old. Home address: 93
Klm Street, South Dartmouth, Massachusetts.

Lt. (j.g.) James E. Foard, U.S. Navy, has been overseas
since October, 1943. Home address: R.F.D. 1, Beckley, West
Virginia.

Lt. Preston R. Brown sustained a bullet wound from a
Japanese sniper during the Marshall Islands occupation and
received the Purple Heart award. When last heard from he
was still in the hospital, but expected to have the cast removed
from his leg and be permitted to use crutches very soon.

Sgt. Edward W. Brockman, Jr., is with the 150th Army
Band, Camp Hulen, Texas. Home address: 1300 West 17th
Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

William Micajah Martin is associated with the law firm of
Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher, 634 South Spring Street, Los
Angeles 14, California, engaged in labor work in arbitrations
and hearings before various government boards. He has a
baby daughter, now six months old.

[ 33 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1943

William B. Guthrie, Class Agent for 1943, etc, will teach
next winter at the McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
Home address: 120 Liberty Street, Petersburg, Virginia.

Aviation Cadet Frank R. Bell, Jr., has completed his pri-
mary flight training at the Naval Air Station, Memphis, Ten-
nessee, and has been transferred to the Naval Air Training
Center, Pensacola, Florida. Home address: 26 Ruffner Ave-
nue, Charleston, West Virginia.

Fraser McMinn writes from Brown University, Provi-
dence, Rhode Island. He is in the United States Marine Corps.

William F. Methvin is superintendent of a department in
the Naval Ordnance Plant, Macon, Georgia.

Ensign James H .Daves has been overseas for about ten
months. He has seen much interesting action. His home ad-
dress is Blanche, Tennessee.

Ensign John E. Zombro, Jr., was a visitor to the campus
within recent months. He received his commission at Harvard
on February 1, 1944. Home address: Box 66, Boyce, Virginia.

Cpl. Adelbert B. Conley, Jr., writes: “There are quite a few
of us in England and we are hoping to have a Washington and
Lee reunion dinner at some time in the future.” Home address:
Route 6, Box 210, San Jose Boulevard, Jacksonville, Florida.

Calhoun Bond is an Ensign in the United States Navy.
Home address: 120 Roland Park, Baltimore, Maryland.

Ensign Robert Pendleton Haley received his commission
at Notre Dame on January 20, 1944. Home address: 900 Lin-
coln Avenue, Palmyra, New York.

Alexander M. Maish graduated on June 6, 1944, from West
Point as a Second Lieutenant of Engineers, after which he
expected to go to Belvoir for three months and then out to
troop duty. Home address: “Old Keswick,” Cobham, Virginia.

Sam Graham has been in Las Vegas, Nevada, for a six
months course in flexible gunnery. He expects to be sent to
operational training, and then “across” as a member of a
gunner crew. Home address: 2903 Bayswater Avenue, Far
Rockaway, Long Island, New York.

Ensign Larry Sullivan has been on inactive duty since
leaving Northwestern in December, but in April was com-
missioned and received his orders to report for duty. Home
address: Blackstone, Virginia.

Ensign J. F. Ellis, Jr.. USNR, was in Lexington for a few
days in March. After half a year in the South Pacific he
appreciated Washington and Lee more than ever. His home
address is 410 Catalpa Street, Clarksdale, Mississippi.

J. M. Hutcheson is an Ensign in the U.S. Navy, with a
Fleet postoffice address in San Francisco, California. Home
address: 1812 Park Aveue, Richmond 20, Virginia.

Maccn M. Long was in training at Fort Bragg, North Car-
olina, in April, 1944. His home address is St. Paul, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) William Robinson Nutt is a Naval aviator flying
Grumman Avenger Dive Bombers and similar aircraft. He is
Engineering Officer for his squadron. Home address: 1978
Emerald Street, San Diego, California.

Cpl. L. E. Magnus is somewhere in England. His home
address is 529 Grant Avenue, Wausau, Wisconsin.

William McCoy, Jr., is in the Technical School, AAFTTC,
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Home address:
Franklin, West Virginia.

Grey Flowers, Jr., after many efforts to get in some branch
of the Armed Forces, has been given a medical discharge on
account of a football injury in which his back was broken. It
took the Marines to discover that it had healed dislocated. He
is working in a defense industry in Vicksburg, Mississippi.
His address is 2011 Cherry Street, Vicksburg, Mississippi.

Allen J. Sharitz is in the Air Force Bomb Group, serving
in Italy. Home address: care of Glen R. Sharitz, Wytheville,
Virginia.

A/C W. J. (Bill) Noonan is on the home stretch in his
aviation training and should receive those coveted wings some
time in November. Home address: 1421 North Baylen Street,
Pensacola, Florida.

Ensign Corneal B. Myers says the Navy, radar and a wife
have kept him more than busy. He reports that his radar
training at Harvard has been the most concentrated school-
ing he has ever received, or ever hopes to receive, and thinks
the service schools will make the regular college course go at
a snail’s pace for any veterans who return to school after the
war. Home address: 3204 Noble Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Lt. Michael M. Selzer is a Communications Officer, Field
Artillery. Home address 2412 Third Avenue, Scotts Bluff,
Nebraska.

Ensign George Warren Priest was recently transferred
from Naval Air Station, Bunker Hill, Indiana, to the Naval
Air Training Center, Pensacola, Florida, for intermediate fly-
ing training. Home address: Route 7, Houk Road, Dayton,
Ohio.

Frank Lowry is a Second Lieutenant in the Marine Corps.
He was sent to the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia,
for three months, and was on leave prior to reporting for
overseas duty.

Lt. Jay D. Cook, Jr., was commissioned in the Marine
Reserves last February and when his letter was written in

March, was at Quantico. He expected to graduate from
R.O.C. in May.

Philip R. Sellers is a Lieutenant, Army Air Field, McCook,
Nebraska. Home address is 101 Woodward Avenue, Mont-
gomery, Alabama.

Kenneth L. Coghill is an Ensign in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve. Home address: 5020 Kanawha Avenue, Charleston.
West Virginia.

Cpl. B. W. Morris, Jr., of 306 Wycliffe Avenue, Roanoke,
Virginia, expected to be on the high seas within a short time
after writing his class letter.

_ John Pearson Jordan was “somewhere in New Guinea
with his outfit, fighting the Japs,” in March, 1944,

Cpl. William Dunlap Burns, Jr., has been overseas since
July 1, 1943. Home address: care of Mrs. John Carroll Bail-
ey, 75 Inger Place, Joplin, Missouri.

; Abe Cahn is serving with the Field Artillery at Fort Riley,
Kansas. Home address: 3246 Twenty-Third Avenue, Meridi-
an, Mississippi.

Lt. Edward P. Lyons, Jr., is in the Army Air Corps. Home
address: 1825 North Spruce Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

[ 34 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ensign Donald Leo Richardson was on the transport that
evacuated Bob Schultz’s battalion from Bougainville. Home
address: 1695 Chicago Boulevard, Detroit, Michigan.

Cpl. Robert F. MacCachran, U.S. Army, gives an APO
address out of Seattle. Home address: 16 South 26th Street,
Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.

Capt. Neely Young is a pilot in an Eighth Air Force Lib-
erator Station in England and has been cited for distinguished
service in 100 combat missions over Europe. The group, com-
manded by Col. Irvine Redel of Rawlings, Wyoming, made
its mission in support of the initial landings by Allied Forces
in France. The citation issued by Major General James P.
Hodges, division commanding general, covered missions to
Berlin, Friedrichaven, Poland, Norway, Holland, Belgium,
Gotha, and France. Home address: Marshall Avenue, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Lt. James Tyler Ramsey was in a plane which was missing
from a training combat mission routine flight out of Colombia
Air Base. No trace has been found by Army and Navy planes,
Coast Guard, surface ships and Marines. Parents’ address:
J. M. Ramsey, Hotel Olmsted, Cleveland, Ohio.

Aviation Cadet Harold W. Laughlin was recently trans-
ferred from the Naval Air Station, Bunker Hill, Indiana,
where he completed his primary flight training, to the Naval
Air Training Center, Pensacola, Florida, for intermediate
flight training. Home address: 23 East Woodbine Street,
Chevy Chase, Maryland.

1944

T/Sgt. Stuart O. Stevens has returned from service out-
side the continental United States and is being processed
through the Army Air Forces Redistribution Station No. 2
in Miami Beach, Florida, where his next assignment will be
determined. Sergeant Stevens, a B-25 radio operator-gunner,
fiew 44 missions during 20 months in New Guinea. He was
wounded in both legs, and was awarded the Air Medal. He
also wears the Purple Heart. Home address: 1209 Old Or-
chard Road, Vincennes, Indiana.

Carl J. McLeod enlisted in February, 1942. He has been
with the Marines in New Zealand, Solomon Islands, and was
hospitalized in Australia. In March he was back in this coun-
try. Home address: 385 Summer Street, Salem, Oregon.

Cpl. Edward C. Waddington is Assistant Crew Chief on a
Douglas C-47, flying out of England. Home address: 206
North Main Street, Woodstown, New Jersey.

S/Sgt. Thomas B. Ulam was attending a pre-Radar course
at Chanute Field, Illinois, when his letter was written in April.
Home adress: 10 Hemlock Street, Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania.

S/Sgt. Donald H. Putnam, Jr., is now somewhere in Eng-
land as a gunner on a Liberator Bomber. Home address:
1219 Bath Avenue, Ashland, Kentucky.

Fred B. Rowe, when his letter was written in April, had
completed instrument squadron and was awaiting orders to
move on to the final sage of training in twin engines. His
instructor in instruments was Bob Hunter, ’42. Home ad-
dress: 619 Cooke Street, Waterbury, Connecticut.

Harrison B. Kinney is a Second Lieutenant in the Medi-
cal Corps. He was awaiting orders for overseas duty when
his letter was written in April. Home address: 53 Military
Street, Houlton, Maine.

Ensign Richard Rockwell graduated from Yale on Octo-
ber 25, 1943; went to Portsmouth with all the other V-12’s
in November; then to Columbia. He expected to be headed
out to sea shortly when his letter was written in April. His
home adress has been changed to 201 Fern Street, West
Hartford 7, Connecticut.

S/Sgt. Julian Polk Smith, Jr., has been in New Guinea
since July, 1943. He has been working as Squadron Armorer
which, he says, in clearer terms might be called a gunsmith.
He has sent home a Jap rifle to his mother, who lives in
Lexington, Virginia.

John Christopher Hempel, Jr., is in the U.S. Army Air
Force. Home address: 6834 Jeffery Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

A/C Lercy J. Stephens was in advanced pilot training at
Foster Field, Texas, in March, and expected to receive his
wings on the 15th of June.

Bob Seal, now Cpl. R. H. Seal, has been training at Green-
ville Army Air Base, Greenville, South Carolina. He says the
“Battle of Greenville” is becoming somewhat monotonous,
and he would like to get overseas.

John R. Forgy, after leaving Washington and Lee in 1942,
attended Washington University School of Architecture (En-
gineering). He volunteered and was accepted in Army Engi-
neers on September 9, 1943. When his letter was written in
March, he was at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. Home address: 1015
North Beech Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Thomas E. Petriken was attending the Army Air Force
Technical Training School at Yale, when last heard from,
which was in January, 1944. Home address 221 Maple Ave-
nue, Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

Ted Kohr was finishing his last phase in training as an
Aviation Cadet, when his class letter was written in March,
1944. He expected to receive his wings and bars sometime
in April.

James C. Stanfield received his Aerial Photographers rat-
ing as Navy Petty Officer 3/C, on March 1, 1944. He ex-
pected to be sent overseas about May Ist. He was married
to Florence Hodge on December 18, 1943.

Bill Broders is an Ensign in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps,
doing pre-medical work at the University of Nebraska Medi-
cal College. Home address: 821 Eighth Avenue, S.W., Roch-
ester, Minnesota.

George T. Wood is in the U.S. Army Air Corps. Home
address: 2346 Carolina Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky.

Alfred L. Heldman, Jr., is doing defense work in Cincinnati,
Ohio. His address is 626 Gholson Avenue, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

Sgt. Clancy Johnson is “somewhere in the Pacific,” still
working as a classification specialist for an ADGP, as well
as personnel clerk in GPHQS. Home address: 605 West Wal-
nut Street, Dalton, Georgia.

Pfc. James E. Withrow is in India with the India-China
wing of the Air Transport Command. Home address: 4953
West Pine Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

Ensign Howard Bell Peabody, while in Cadet training for
U.S. Maritime training, had a trip around the world on the
Adabelle Lykes, “one of Joe Lykes’ father’s ships.” He
graduated and is now on his second ship. Home address:
care of A. B. Learned, Natchez, Mississippi.

[ 35 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

S/Sgt. Frank N. Jarvis has been overseas a year, sta-
tioned in India and the Far East. Home address: 1996 Chat-
field Road, Columbus, Ohio.

Capt. Robert M. De Haven, U.S. Air Corps, now some-
where in New Guinea, has the following service record: “ten
definite Jap planes shot down; 2000-ton freighter sunk by
dive bombing; 200 combat missions; 450 combat flying hours,
The Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross (plus two Oak
Leaf Clusters), and the Air Medal plus seven Oak Leaf Clus-
ters).”” Home address: 1726 North Kenmore Avenue, Holly-
wood, California.

John F. Tatum, U.S. Naval Air Corps, attended pre-flight
school at Del Monte, California, in May, 1943. We have no
later news. Home address: Clarkton, Missouri.

lst Lt. Roger M. Soth, Bombardier of the Eighth AAF
B-17 Flying Fortress, “Borrowed Time,” recently partici-
pated in the Eighth Air Force shuttle bombing attack to
Russia. Their entrance into Russia was spectacular. “We
landed with our hydraulic system shot out by German flack
over our target near Berlin, ground looped the plane several
times by cutting the two left engines and ‘gunning’ the right
in order to stop, while a Russian correspondent took motion
pictures of everything, including us as we emerged from the
plane.” Home address: 515 Arlington Road, Erie, Pennsyl-
vania.

1945

Ensign John D. Waring received his Navy Wings of Gold
recently and was commissioned an Ensign. He was designated
a Naval Aviator and will go on duty at one of the Navy’s air
operational training centers before being assigned to a com-
bat zone. Home address: Hood College, Frederick, Maryland.

David Wendel Foerster won his “Wings of Gold” and
was commissioned an Ensign in the Naval Reserve, following
completion of the prescribed flight training course at the
Naval Air Training Center, Pensacola, Florida. Home ad-
dress: 3339 Oak Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

T/Sgt. William H. Toney, of Warren, Arkansas, is one
of the nine airmen in the crew of the B-24 Liberator “Edie”
who returned to an Eighth AAF base to claim Air Medals
awarded them while they were officially missing in action.
Set. Toney is a radio operator-gunner.

Dirk R. Dreux graduated early in June from the Air Corps
Base Unit in Boca Raton, Florida. He volunteered for the
Air service the day he became eighteen years old in No-
vember, 1942, and entered the service in February, 1943. Home
address: Larchmont, New York.

Frederick R. Cottrell, Private, Medical Detachment (In-
fantry), has been awarded the Purple Heart and the Silver
Star for gallantry in action somewhere in Italy. Home ad-
dress: care of Mrs. Joe Hobson, Prestonsburg, Kentucky.

William Francis Clayton enlisted in the Army Air Corps
in October, 1942. When his letter was written in March, he
was doing Air Corps Supply work at the Yuma Army Air
Field, Yuma, Arizona. Home address: 311 Twenty-Second
Street, Santa Monica, California.

William Robert Gaines, David Wendel Foerster, Abner
Linwood Holton, Jr., and Albert Vernon Zimmerman, Jr.,
received their commissions as Ensigns in the U.S. Navy on
the same day at the Midshipman’s School, Northwestern,
Chicago, Illinois.

Bill Earle is a Midshipman, U.S. Navy, at Annapolis.
Home address 167 South Roosevelt Avenue, Columbus, Ohio.

Lt. Roger J. Bear, Jr., Army Air Force, received his com-
mission in May, 1944. Home address: 3182 Portsmouth Ave-
nue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Harry H. Organ, Jr., is in Midshipman’s School at Cor-
nell University. Home address: Porter’s Bluff Road, Clarks-
ville, Tennessee.

Ensign Don M. Casto, Jr., is a pilot for Naval Air Trans-
port, flying cargo and passengers throughout the Caribbean
and South America. He is awaiting orders for transfer to the
Southwest Pacific.

Stuart Allan McAllister completed his \V-12 training at
Hampden-Sydney. He was sworn in as a Midshipman at
Cornell on April 26, 1944. Home address: 559 Orme Circle,
N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

Collier Wenderoth, Jr., is now serving with the U.S. Army
in Italy. Home address: 811 South 25th Street, Fort Smith,
Arkansas .

Robert L. Mobley is stationed at Santa Ana, California,
as an Aviation Cadet, classified as a pilot, getting ready to
enter Pre-Flight Training. Home address: 1008 Stanley Ave-
nue, Ardmore, Oklahoma.

Graham Norton has been on active duty since July, 1943,
under Navy V-12. He is now at Vanderbilt in his first year
medical course. Home address: 1128 North 26th Street, Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

Jay Silverstein is an Ensign in the United States Navy.
He has been overseas and reports meeting Washington and
Lee men everywhere. When his letter was written he was back
in this country.

Phil Page was studying civil engineering in March with
the ASTP unit at Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York.
Home address: 1124 Maple Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

Elmer B. Tarleton, of 68 Ward Place, South Orange, New
Jersey, was commissioned a Second Lieutenant and Pilot in
the Air Force of the Army of the United States in February,
1944,

David Durant Burnell, after leaving Washington and Lee
in 1942, entered the University of Michigan, where he re-
mained until he entered the Army in February, 1943. He is
a 37 mm. gunner and, at last report, was still in this country.

Lt. Emmett W. Barger, Jr., graduated from the Army Air
Force Navigation School, San Marcos, Texas, in June. He
was on the campus for a few days in July. Home address:
Waynesboro, Virginia.

1946

Cpl. Robbins Ladew Gates, U.S. Army, was at Peterson
Field, Colorado Springs, Colorado, the last time we heard
from him. Home address: Fairfax Hall, Park Station, Way-
nesboro, Virginia.

S. Hobart Lockett, Ir., is now in advanced training at Fort
Bliss, Texas, before being sent into active service. Home ad-
dress: Oakwood Drive, Packanack Lake, New Jersey.

Cpl. John J. Steitz, III, is serving with an Infantry Divi-
sion in Italy, with a machine gun platoon of a heavy weapon
company. He took part in the crossing of the Volturno River,

[ 36 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the Cassino Battle and the Anzio Bridgehead. Home address:
9 West Tenth Street, New York, New York.

2nd Lt. Ray S. Smith, Jr., son of Ray S. Smith, B.A. ’14,
LL.B. ’16, of Hot Springs, Arkansas, is now an instructor
of advanced flying at Wiliams Field, Chandler, Arizona. He
graduated from Williams Field on May 23, 1944, as a Pilot
and was then sent to Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas,
to the Central Instructors School from which he graduated
early in July. Home address: 303 Quapaw Avenue, Hot
Springs, Arkansas.

William Young Smith, °47, second son of Ray S. Smith,
is now at West Point, United States Military Academy. He
attended Washington and Lee last year and was on the
Honor Roll each semester and a member of the freshman
honor fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma.

Ambrose Givens has been at the University of Louisville,
Kentucky, V-12 Pre-Medical School since July, 1943. His
home is in Lawrenceburg, Kentucky.

John J. Kelly, III, has been stationed at Duke University
since July 1, 1943, as an apprenticed seaman in the Navy V-12
program. He hopes to be assigned to a medical school by July
the first.

John Culbertson Short, Jr., was on his way to a port of
embarkation on March 25, 1944. Home address: 2828 East
Pleasant, Davenport, Iowa.

G. E. Hairston, Jr., is a Cadet at the United States Military
Academy at West Point. His address until June, 1946, will
be Company D, 2nd Regiment, West Point, New York.

Fred M. Vinson, Jr., is in the Classification Unit located
at San Antonio, Texas.

Ted Thomas is a member of the 16th Armored Division
at Camp Chaffee, Arkansas, where he expected to remain
until his outfit is shipped overseas.

Roger M. Winbourne, Jr., is in the ASTP, pre-medical
training at the University of Pennsylvania. Home address:
209 Highland Avenue, Lenoir, North Carolina.

Pfc. Paul J. B. Murphy, Jr., is in the U.S. Army Signal
Corps, stationed at Fort Monmouth, assigned to the Special
Service Staff of the 15th Signal Training Regiment. Home ad-
dress: 605 East Joppa Road, Towson, Maryland.

Ray Harris Dovell is a pre-medical student in the U.S.
Navy Training Unit at Duke University.

Robert Reid Agnor received the Silver Pilot Wings of the
Army Air Force at Blackland Army Air Field, Waco, Texas,
on June 27, 1944. Home address: 203 Jefferson Street, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Cpl. Robert Rougvie entered the Army on March 18, 1943,
trained as a bombsight and autopilot mechanic. He expected
to be shipped overseas within a short time. Home address:
152 Jewett Street, Providence 8, Rhode Island.

Lt. P. James Bates is flying B-24’s at the Army Air Base,
Pueblo, Colorado. Home address: Route 2, Alexandria, Vir-
ginia.

S1/C James Franklin Brewster is in the Naval Operating
Base, Newport, Rhode Island, where he expects to remain
indefinitely. Home address: 511 Congress Avenue, Havre de
Grace, Maryland.

Marriages

1936
Rev. E. C. Day was married to Mildred Unger on April 6,
1944. Mr. Day is pastor of the Page-Stanley Methodist Church
at Rileyville, Virginia.
1937
Ensign Robert P. Kingsbury was married to Willa Jac-
queline Smith on March 27, 1944, in Hollywood, California.

Dexter Hobbie, III, was married to Elizabeth Ann Bur-
nett on August 3, 1944.
1939
Charles D. Tolley was married on June 24, 1944, to Dola
Graybeal, in the Washington and Lee Chapel.

Lt. Alfred Rogers Kreimer was married to Jean Ross
Chandler on May 27, 1944, at St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church,
Brisbane, Australia. Lt. Kreimer has been in the service
since 1941, having served twenty-three months overseas.

1940

T/S Matthews Allen Griffith was married to Margaret
May Dudley on July 29, 1944, in Richmond, Virginia.

1941

Lt. James Hubert Price, Jr., was married to Anne Hope-
well Cone on March 31, 1944.

Major William Edgar Buxton was married to Mary Mar-
tin McFall on May 20, 1944.

1942
Thomas Olin Fleming, United States Army, was married
to Helen Rattschaefer on February 10, 1944, at Camp Rey-
nolds, Pennsylvania.
1943
S/Sgt. Charles Henry Smith was married to Babbette
Marie Baker on May 12, 1944.

Lee M. Kenna was married to Elizabeth Perry Phillips on
June 12, 1944.

Cpl. Jesse W. Benton, Jr., was married to Mary Caroline
Kretschmar on January 29, 1944.

Births
1932

Lieutenant and Mrs. Malcolm D. Campbell, Jr., of Lex-
ington, Virginia, are the parents of a son, born April 28, 1944.

1936

Mr. and Mr. Robert S. Burnett, of 2013 Eastern Park-
way, Louisville, Kentucky, are the parents of a daughter,
Abigal Abbott, born May 6, 1944.

Lt (j.g-) and Mrs. Edward Archibald Turville, of Grove-
land, Florida, are the parents of a son, Edward Wright Tur-
ville, born June 13, 1944.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. John F. O’Connor, 153 Lancaster Avenue,
Buffalo, New York, are the parents of a son, born April 21,
1944.

1941

Lt. and Mrs. George Richard Day, of Memphis, Tennes-

see, are the parents of a daughter, born June 27, 1944.

[ 37 |

 

 

 

cof EELS 9

i
Tn aa |
4 eee

eS ont nt | . ™~ = =
~ res — > ~

5

>»

: ro
a

Pe Srey

63?
Uh A= i
-.

oe

7 I Hi

7 | Wag Oe,
as

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

e ALTHOUGH a large order for Washington
and Lee plates was placed many months ago only a small shipment has
been received in this country, and we have no assurance as to further
deliveries.

The Alumni Office has been overwhelmed with orders for plates
since the advertisement appeared in the January issue of the magazine,

and we have no plates for sale until a further shipment is received.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

