FEBRUARY, 1947

 

‘
;
s 4 ee
ay
“a a . ~
.
. —
« Re Pa <
> -

                     

  

. ~~‘
SF “a
° a‘ rf
EN Ne
>

Ni

  

sh .
i i} + tee
av et
-.

5 - at's
‘s MA,
. E UP
. 20's
AX
Aa
e

   
  

Bis.”
<= Mio
os . 7 M
en Say

     

 

~

a
ie |

,
NN

pt

o
‘
a

a

NY \ .
BOQ \

| —
nes ’ See “4 > " cS
na S eS. oS MS)

   

.
p

= ne

> “

of
ae

at

= ne aed ‘ ed
wot . Hs ag ee er el als :
< ¢ Co ee wo
' OER Fee ae, SP - on i a ee
, fs a Ay — - ee Pe nant "  , y
’ (gin + i 7A
’ :

ok | y Mee As/
MLR \s Aidt x
WAN AK

«,

a -
= *

     

“ee

    

     

OO pee.

 

Class Agents for 1947

1878-’"91—Alumni Office.

1892 —E. L. Green, 328 Sims Avenue, Columbia, S. C.

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, N. Y.

1894 —E. P. Coles, 501 Commercial National Bank Build-
ing, Charlotte, N.C.

1895 —C. J. Boppell, 2666 37th Avenue, S. W., Seattle 6,
Washington.

1896 —Marion W. Ripy, 4 E. 43rd St., New York 17, N.Y.

1897 —Edward Wohlwender, 209 Murray Building, Colum-
bus, Georgia.

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street,
Chicago 2, Illinois.

1899 —James A. McClure, 617 Ninth Avenue, South, St.
Petersburg, Florida.

1900 —Alfred Grayson Davis, R.R. 2, Lewisburg, W. Va.

1901 —R. Waller Blain, 140 Ziegler Street, Sainte Gene-
vieve, Missouri.

1902 —Volney M. Brown, 1 Paso National Bank Building,
El Paso, Texas.

1903 —R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

1904 —W. Owen Wilson, 1113 East Main Street, Richmond,
Virginia.

1905 —Walter G. Riddick, 2416 Wolfe, Little Rock, Ark.

1906 —Dr. F. R. Crawford, Box 208, Farmville, Virginia.

1907 —vVincent M. Miles, Solicitor, Post Office Department,

Washington 25, D. C.
1908-A—Abram D. Somerville,
Mississippi.
1908-L—Alonzo B. McMullen, 1111-15 First National Bank
Building, Tampa 2, Florida.

1909-A—William T. Delaplaine, Frederick, Maryland.

1909-L—Daniel K. Sadler, Supreme Court, Santa Fe, N. M.

1910-A—Wyatt C. Hedrick, 1005 First National Bank Build-
ing, Fort Worth 2, Texas.

1910-L—Wilber L. Tilden, 805 Florida Bank Building, Or-
lando, Florida.

1911-A—Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, Medical Arts Building, An-
derson, South Carolina.

1911-L—Daniel B. Straley, 447 Monadnock Building, 53 West
Jackson, Chicago, Illinois.

1912-A—Edward Lyons, 320 East Grand Boulevard, Detroit,
Michigan.

1912-L—J. Blackburn Watts, Chamber of Commerce Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

1913-A—William T. Hanzsche, 347 Spring Street, Trenton,
New Jersey.

1913-L—Ryland G. Craft, Gate City, Virginia

1914-A—Lee R. Grabill, Jr., 2303 Saymoure Road, Wilming-
ton, Delaware.

1914-L—Merriman S. Smith, P. O. Box 633, Bluefield, W. Va.

1915-A—J. Carl Fisher, 208 Witherspoon Rd., Baltimore 12,
Maryland.

1915-L—A. Wendell Mann, 201 Kitchen Building, Ashland,
Kentucky.

1916-A—Bruce F. Woodruff, 401-406 Haas-Howell Building,
Atlanta 3, Georgia.

1916-L—Norvin C. Evans, 2620 Gladstone Avenue, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

1917-A—Dr. R. Glenn Craig, 490 Post Street, Room 521, San
Francisco, California

1917-L—Herbert G. Peters, Attorney-at-Law, Bristol, Vir-
ginia-Tennessee.

P.O. Box 387, Cleveland,

1918 —Fulton W. Hoge, Title Insurance Building, Los
Angeles, California.

1919 —C. Houston Patterson, 315 Stowers Street, Blue-
field, West Virginia.

1920-A—James P. Hill, Atlantic National Bank Building,

Jacksonville, Florida.
1920-L—Fred D. Townsend, 929 King Street, Columbia, S. C.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, Peoples Nat’! Bank, Lynchburg, Va.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, P. O. Box 2848, Orlando, Fla.
1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving St., Arlington, Va.

1923-A—George C. Mason, Gem-Dandy, Incorporated, Mad-
ison, North Carolina.

1923-L—Robert H. Carr, R. H. Carr Lumber Company, Jas-
per, Alabama.

1924-A—Howard D. Leake, 908 Irving Road, Birmingham,
Alabama.

1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, American Bank & Trust Com-
pany Building, Suffolk, Virginia

1925-A—Vernon J. Kreienbaum, Greenville Manufacturing
Company, Emporia, Virginia.

1925-L—Luther L. Copley, 1117-1118 Security Building, Mi-
ami, Florida.

1926-A—Carl B. Knight, Big Stone Gap, Virginia.

1926-L—Earle A. Cadmus, New Kirn Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1927-A—George E. Burks, 402 Washington Building, Louis-
ville, Kentucky

1927-L—L. Storey Stemmons, 401 Republic Bank Building,
Dallas, Texas.

1928-A—J. Davis Reed, Jr., 513 Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk, Virginia.

1928-L—Norman R. Crozier, Jr., Southwestern Life Building,
Dallas 1, Texas.

1929-A—Walter H. Wilcox, Old Connecticut Road, Wayland,
Massachusetts.

1929-L—Massillon M. Heuser, 205 Kast Greenway Boulevard,
Falls Church, Virginia.

1930-A—Kenneth L. Keil, 909 Myers Bldg., Springfield, III.

1930-L—E. I. Bostwick, 801 Mutual Building, Richmond, Va.

1931-A—Paul Allen Hornor, Box 386, Clarksburg, W. Va.

1931-L—John Charles Smith, 50 South Lasalle, Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

1932-A—William C. Mulligan, 38 South Dearborn Street,
Chicago 3, Illinois

1932-L—H. Breckenridge Heaps, Attorney-at-Law, Bel Air,
Maryland.

1933-A—Luther F. Violett, Drawer 6-D, Central Station, St.
Louis 1, Missouri

1933-L—J. Hoge Tyler, III, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia.

1934-A—Richard W. Grafton, One West State Street, Tren-
ton 8, New Jersey.

1934-L—Thornton G. Berry, Welch, West Virginia

1935-A—William Schuhle, Adrian College, Adrian, Michigan

1935-L—E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., 100 Market Street, Cam-
den, New Jersey

1936-A—Kenneth P. Lane, Box 1538, Richmond, Virginia.

1936-L—Hugh D. McNew, 1336 McCutcheon, Richmond
Heights 17, Missouri.

1937-A—Robert M. Peek, Jr., 711 Wallace Bldg., Little Rock,
Arkansas.

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of J. Goldsmith & Sons Co.,
Memphis 1, Tennessee

1938-A—Charles R. Skinner, 145 Whiting Lane, West Hart-
ford 7, Connecticut

1938-L—Frank L. Price, 1400 South George Mason Drive,
Barcroft Apts. No. 22, Arlington, Virginia.

1939-A—Charles H. Semple, Jr., 1214 Summit Avenue, Louis-
ville 4, Kentucky.

1939-L—William W. Perkins,
Building, Cincinnati 2,

1940-A—Richard W. Boisseau,
Petersburg, Virginia.

1940-L—Harry Roberts Stephenson, Jr., Taylors, S. C.

1941-A—Henry Thomas Martin, 422 King George Avenue,
S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

1941-L—Pete Barrow, Richwood, West Virginia.

1942-A—Harold R. Levy, Box 3082, Winston-Salem, N. C.

1942-L—Robert C. Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville 2, Kentucky

Room 806, Transportation
Ohio.

1812 Chuckatuck Avenue,

1943 —Albert D. Darby, Jr., 2010 W. Grace St., Richmond
20, Virginia.
1944 —Clarence F. Johnson, Jr., 814 East Morris Street,

Dalton, Georgia.

 

 

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap,
Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia,
34 Peachtree

Baltimore—Louis L. Tignor, ‘32, Maryland
Trust Building

Birmingham—John }. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge Sale,
'24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
noad, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, '38, 2625 Handa-

syde Court
Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C. T. Dawkins, '09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Mimai, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, °33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., '30, Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, ‘31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, °35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, ‘37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—aA,. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, '15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—William B. Bagby, WDBJ

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—William C. Edwards, '32, 5142 West-
minster Place

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ‘38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Randolph D. Rouse, ‘39,
Valley Vista Apts., Belmont Road, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

Vol. XXII FEBRUARY, 1947 No. 2
Editor...................... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President ......:.....- Tos. S. KirKPATRICK, 1913
Vice-President P. C. Wuittock, 1929
Secretary............ Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer... _..........JR. RED Waite, 1919

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun W. Drye, 1920

P. C. WuiTtLock, 1929
Tuos. S. KirKPATRICK, 1913

Leon W. Harris, 1915

Dr. Rerp Wuire, 1919

Amos A. BoLen, 1937
LAURENCE W. Witson, 1910

Henry P. Jonnston, 1929

THIS ISSUE:

This issue gives, as in the past, a full report of the 1946
Alumni Fund, which includes the names of all contributors
listed by classes

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Two Perspectives upon the Academic Year

(Excerpts from a report to the Board of Trustees)

As the present session slips away from us, I seem to
see it in two somewhat vague perspectives, both of unique
significance.

The Incredible Year: The present session has been
without parallel in my experience, or in the experience
of anybody since the time of General Lee, for confusion,
difficulty, and the unbelievable volume of work upon ad-
ministrative officers. Considered for the moment as a
business, the University had to be reconverted from a
10% operating agency back to maximum, with all the
attendant problems of the physical, the financial, the
materiel, and the personnel; then had to be expanded
20% beyond any maximum known before; then had the
unprecedented task of housing 250 student families. All
of these things had to be done at a time of fantastic
prices and of unparalleled scarcities—scarcity of labor,
scarcity of equipment (our first order for scientific sup-
plies brought us about 2% of the supplies ordered),
scarcity of text-books (the classes in freshman mathe-
matics have used a grand miscellany of texts, just any-
thing available), of teachers, and of housing and all hous-
ing supplies. Three-fourths of our students were regis-
tered by and with a governmental agency (the officials
have been cooperative, but don’t forget the red tape). On
top of this comes that avalanche of applications, running
possibly twenty for every vacancy—this item alone, in
spite of additional secretarial help, would double my
personal correspondence. Then, to crown it all, we are
launching, or have launched a campaign for $3,000,000.

The Rewarding Effort: But far beyond these details
of the turbulent routine, we have deep and satisfying as-
surance that the University has never done better work.

The record of our students is excellent. Certain name-
less fears we may have had on the eve of reconversion
proved groundless. We do not have “two classes of stu-
dents, veterans and non-veterans.” We do not have a

single veteran who represents that predicted group of
the young gentlemen who “wanted to spend a pleasant
year at the expense of the government.” Student activi-
ties are being resumed and supported in a reasonably
active way. The proportion of “automatics” and ‘“‘drop-
outs” is about normal. Since the overwhelming majority
of the veterans—and they are the great majority of all
students here—are our own boys who have returned, the
essential traditions of campus life have not been material-
ly disturbed.

We have a good faculty. Of the men on permanent
status who went into various forms of public service
during war years, only three failed to return. Today to
ny personal knowledge, which is not inclusive, there are
twenty-one men on our faculty who could be making
much more elsewhere. | am now referring to recent of-
fers, not to the cumulative records of all the lives of our
men. These men have stayed with us in some part because
of gratitude for fair treatment and in some part because
of their love of tie task; but they have given a testi-
mony also of their pride in the institution and their faith
in its future.

 

 

The cohesion of student work and faculty work pro-
duces a standard of instruction that meets every test.
It is known to you that every division of the University
which is subject to rating by an accrediting agency on
graduate or professional level, receives top rating. I
could also make known to you special recognitions by a
dozen or more of the leading universities or highly crit-
ical scientific bureaus which confirm the thoroughness of
instruction offered on this campus.

When we approach the prospective donor, we can
tell him that Washington and Lee has more than a great
history ; we can tell him that the impact of living alumni
is a powerful factor of contemporary life; and we can
tell him that the high quality of present performance here
on the campus is a guarantee of future worthiness.

President

a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Herbert Fitzpatrick, recior of the Board of Trustees, President Francis P. Gaines and John W. Davis, general chairman of the
Bicentennial, shown during the meeting of the Board of Trustees with bicentennial leaders in Washington, January 18, when
a resolulion was passed officially opening the Bicentennial Financial Program

The Bicentennial Campaign and

The Alumni Fund

Washington and Lee, like every educational institution,
has two broad problems—to maintain itself and its services at
satisfactory levels, steadily year after year, and, upon oc-
casion, to enlarge its plant, its funds or its facilities when the
need arises.

Every individual faces the same problem in his own life—
the basic need for regular, year to year support for himself
and family, and upon other occasions, the need for a larger
or better house, the need to purchase a more adequate piece
of property or, in the language of ecomonics, some other
“capital” need.

Both needs, it is obvious, are important, whether they oc-
cur in the life of the individual or in the life of an institution
such as Washington and Lee.

Washington and Lee’s alumni fund is a most important
factor in helping the University meet its recurring annual
needs. It is one of the strongest annual bonds with its alumni.
Their small, modest gifts each year add up to a total that
helps in an appreciable way to maintain the high standard
of the University.

On the other hand, when those occasions come, as now,
for urgently needed “capital” requirements so that Wash-

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ington and Lee will go forward,*the problem arises for each
alumnus—shall I—am I expected to—give to the alumni fund,
or to the Bicentennial Fund—or to both?

The University’s position in the matter is that both the
traditional alumni and the Bicentennial Fund mean much
to the continued life and progress of the University but that
the decision to participate in either fund, or both, is a matter
for individual determination. Both are in one real sense mere-
ly opportunities provided for alumni to give, voluntarily, ac-
cording to the generosity of their hearts and the ability of
their means.

Washington and Lee has expressed to the Alumni Asso-
ciation its belief that Washington and Lee alumni will clearly
recognize the importance of the steady support provided by
the alumni fund, and take just pride in it, and that few if any
alumni would care to see the fund abandoned, even if tem-
porarily, and its continuity and integrity broken or halted.

It has expressed also the belief that the small but cumu-
lative important gifts called forth by the alumni fund will not
conflict in any real way with the larger capital gifts that must
be obtained for success of the Bicentennial effort whose pur-
pose is to bulwark the University and safeguard its future in
even larger ways.

The University, therefore, expresses the hope that every
alumnus continue unimpaired the making of his regular an-
nual contribution to the alumni fund, this spring, through
his class agents, and, in the fall, in the growing emergency
which faces the University in the area of its capital require-
ments, will respond with proportionate generousity to their
alma mater’s greater needs.

The Washington Grant

A financial stimulus administered by George Washington
in 1796 to a then tiny, struggling “school in the upper coun-
try” continues to this day to provide part payment toward
the tuition of every student attending Washington and Lee
University.

Now Washington and Lee, which developed from little
Liberty Hall Academy, the recipient of Washington’s gift of
one hundred shares of canal company stock, finds history re-
peating itself in the university’s Bicentennial Financial Pro-
gram launched just a month ago to bring the institution
$3,000,000 for its third century of development.

Today, on the anniversary of the birth of its first donor,
America’s sixth oldest university announced that its fund
campaign has already brought gifts totalling more than
$400,000. A substantial proportion of these initial gifts are, like
George Washington’s, in the form of negotiable securities.

The Washington gift, the first large gift of securities ever
made to an American college, and valued at $50,000, has so
far yielded a sum almost identical to that contributed to the
month-old Bicentennial fund. Despite reductions in invest-
ment income and increases in the number of students who
share its benefits, in recent years it has continued to pay about
three dollars a year toward the education of every Washington
and Lee student.

To fulfill a dream of George Washington—the linking of
the Atlantic Ocean with the Ohio River by a navigable water-
way—the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1784 granted a
charter to the James River Company. It was the securities
of this canal enterprise, in effect the parent company of the
present Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, which comprised
Washington’s gift of stock to the Lexington school.

In 1785 the Virginia Legislature had awarded the stock
to General Washington in recognition of his services to his
state and country. Actually he had shared in the engineering

of the waterways. Washington refused to accept the gift for
his personal benefit, but later agreed provided the Legisla-
ture would allow him to turn it over to some worthy purpose.
The Commonwealth consented to this, but because the James
River Company was spending its capital in building locks
and canals and was receiving no revenue, Washington decided
to hold the stock until the company began to show profits.
That day came, so Washington thought, in 1796.

Having spent most of the preceding years at the seat of
the government in Philadelphia, and therefore not being too
familiar with Virginia institutions, Washington asked the
Legislature to designate a recipient for the gift. Refusing
to do this the Legislature did suggest a seminary of learn-
ing in the “upper country.” Upon hearing of this, General
Andrew Moore of Rockbridge County and General Francis
Preston of Washington County, representatives in Congress
from the “upper country,” directed the attention of Wash-
ington to Liberty Hall at Lexington. General Moore also
wrote the Rev. William Graham, the school’s rector, sug-
gesting that the academy apply to Washington for the gift.
Graham and the Board of Trustees prepared an address and
forwarded it along with a map of the “upper country” to
President Washington.

According to one report, General Lighthorse Harry Lee,
father of Robert E. Lee, who later became the institution’s
eighth and greatest president, helped to persuade Washing-
ton to pass the securities to the institution which now bears
both names.

In considering other educational ventures in the “upper
country” as possible recipients, Washington finally decided
to endow Liberty Hall because he said he preferred to assist
those who had assisted themselves, and other seminaries sug-
gested to him had not become established. He reaffirmed the
benefaction in his will.

In March, 1802, the James River Company yielded its first
dividend. Through most of the 19th century dividends ranged
from 12 to 18 per cent. Up to 1928, when the Commonwealth
of Virginia redeemed for $50,000 cash the certificates of in-
debtedness which it had issued in 1892 in exchange for the
stock, Washington and Lee University had received about
$350,000 in dividends and interest from the gift.

The principal sum was placed in the general endowment
fund of the university in 1928 and re-invested in other se-
curities. Through this medium, George Washington con-
tinues to support the school in the “upper country” to which
he gave vitality exactly a century and a half ago.

 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, ALUMNI MEETING

The Louisville, Kentucky, Alumni Chapter held a Found-
ers Day luncheon on January 20 at the Canary Cottage. The
following officers were elected to serve for the coming year:
Peel Rivers, 33, President; Dick Day, °41, Vice-President,
and Tom Nugent, ’38, Secretary and Treasurer.

The following alumni were present: Ernest B. Walker, Jr.,
Tom Tulley, John Davis, Wathen Knebelkamp, Charles
Semple, Murrell Klein, Kennedy Helm, Jo Van Zandt, M. R.
Nelson, Charles Mercke, Dick Day, Peel Rivers, Robert C.
Hobson, Fielden Woodward, Bill Whaley, Jack Hardwick,
Lynn Smith, George Burks, Bijur O'Sullivan, Frank Glenn,
Oldham Clarke, Ed Rietze, Tom Nugent.

——

Colonel John H. Tucker, °10, President of the Louisiana
Law Institute, will speak to the student-body of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School on March 1, on certain phases
of Louisiana law. He is a member of the law firm of Tucker,
Bronson and Martin, Commercial Bank Building, Shreveport,
Louisiana.

[ 6 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Enrollment at Washington & Lee, 194'/

A MESSAGE TO EVERY WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS:

Washington and Lee, in common with other colleges of
limited enrollment, faces a serious problem in the selection of
new students that it can wisely admit in September, 1947. It
is thought advisable to make a full statement of this situation
in this issue of The Alumni Magazine to be sent by the Uni-
versity to every alumnus, to inform the alumni and to wel-
come their continuing cooperation and help in meeting this
problem.

The current enrollment has been increased from a pre-war
average of 925 to around 1150 students, in an effort to meet
the legitimate demands for education from the returning vet-
erans. It is felt that an increase beyond 1150 cannot be made
without jeopardizing the quality of the instructional and in-
stitutional life for those students who are in attendance here.

Enrollment at Washington and Lee is no longer simply a
question of whether a boy can do satisfactory work and will
be an acceptable campus citizen; it involves selecting from
many qualified applicants those who have the strongest claims
to the limited number of places available. The number to be
accepted in September must necessarily be relatively small
through the fact that the overwhelming number of veterans
as well as non-veterans who began college work in 1946 will
remain on the campus for at least three or four years, and
thus far fewer places than normally will be opened up through
graduation.

In past years, and through 1946, the policy pursued was to
accept or decline an application for admission as soon as the
papers were complete. Were this policy now in effect an en-
tering class for September, 1947, could easily have been select-
ed by the fall of 1946 from applications already on file. Such
action would, however, have excluded a number of better
qualified applicants who would have applied later, particular-
ly applicants in their last year of high or preparatory school
work. It has consequently been thought advisable to place a
dead-line for applications that would be certain to enable the
University to secure a large number of highly qualified ap-
plicants and that would not be too late a time for applicants
not accepted to apply elsewhere.

The entering class for September, 1947, has been fixed at
250, and in making the selection of the strongest class possible
we feel that the following statement will be recognized as valid
by all alumni:

That there is every desire to give the fullest consideration
to recommendations from Alumni as to possible candidates
for admission, but it will be essential to have applications
completed by 1 April, 1947; and the selection must necessarily
be based on the strength of record of the applicant.

It should perhaps be further explained that the 250 ap-
plicants to be accepted in September will, practically without
exception, include no men who have had previous connection
with another college. This action is based on a desire to of-
fer opportunity to as many returning veterans as the facilities
permit. It is felt that our first obligation is to our own men
who left to enter the armed services. These are being accepted
for re-entrance almost regardless of academic or other status.
Washington and Lee assumes that other institutions will take
a similar attitude toward their own former students, and
that our wisest policy is to confine the all too limited number
of new men to freshmen, veterans and non-veterans, who will

normally be on the campus for four years, and who can have
the whole of their college experience here.

It is hoped that alumni will understand the spirit in which
this statement is made, in an effort to establish the post-war
student body on as strong and as fair a basis as possible.

FRANK J. GILLIAM

Director of Admissions

Ball Foundation Appointments
Announced

President Francis Pendleton Gaines has announced the
establishment of a group of professorships on the Thomas
Ball Foundation at Washington and Lee and the appoint-
ment of four faculty members to the professorships.

Named to the new standing were Dr. Robert Foster Brad-
ley, professor of romance languages; Dr. Lucius J. Desha,
professor of chemistry; Charles Porterfield Light, professor
of law; and Dr. Marcellus Henry Stowe, professor of geology.
A fifth professorship included on the Ball Foundation and
to be awarded a member of the present university faculty
would be announced later. The appointments were made by a
special eight-man selection board. The foundation was es-
tablished through a recent gift of Mrs. Alfred I. du Pont, of
Wilmington, Delaware, made in connection with Washing-
ton and Lee’s Bicentennial program as a memorial to her
father, Captain Thomas Ball.

Trustees of the university specified that the posts were to
be awarded on the basis of three qualifications, scholarship
and scholarly interest, effectiveness as a teacher, and value to
the university by influence and general activity, Dr. Gaines
said.

Dr. Bradley came to Washington and Lee as head of the
romance language department in 1936 after teaching at
Georgia Tech, the University of South Carolina and the
University of Wisconsin.

Currently acting as dean of the university, Dr. Desha will
return to full-time teaching in the science school here after
this session. Prior to coming here he was professor of bio-
chemisty at the University of Tennessee College of Medicine
and in World War I served in the Chemical Division of Mil-
itary Intelligence in France. He is the author of two well
known textbooks in organic chemistry.

Professor Light, formerly associated with a Washington
law firm, first taught in the W. and L. law school in 1926.
He served with the judge advocate-general’s deparment dur-
ing World War II and returned here this session. He is a
graduate of the Harvard law school with postgraduate work
at Columbia law school and a member of the District of
Columbia and Virginia State Bar Associations.

Dr. Stow, a fellow of the Geological Society of America
and of the American Association for Advancement of Science,
was granted a wartime leave of absence from Washington
and Lee to serve as deputy director of the mining division of
the War Production Board. He has served as president of
the Virginia Academy of Science and as president of the
Yellowstone-Bighorn Research Association and has spent a
number of field seasons in geologic research in the Rocky
Mountains.

Lt

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

On the Campus

JOURNALISM ADDS VISITING INSTRUCTORS

Addition of two part-time instructors to the staff of the
department of Journalism for the second semester, announced
by Professor O. W. Riegel, head of the department, are Wil-
liam Atkinson, managing editor of the Roanoke Times, and
Louis Spilman, editor and publisher of the News-Virginian,
Waynesboro, Va. Mr. Atkinson will teach the course in copy
editing and make-up, and Mr. Spilman will teach advanced
reporting. The two instructors are both leading Virginia pro-
fessional newspapermen. Mr. Spilman became owner, editor
and general manager of the Waynesboro News-Virginian
on September 1, 1929. Mr. Atkinson has been managing ed-
itor of the Roanoke Times for 22 years.

i 2. Sh 2
BRYAN SPEAKS AT JOURNALISM ASSEMBLY

David Tennant Bryan, publisher of the Richmond Times
Dispatch and News-Leader, was the speaker at the University
Assembly on November 18 before a large gathering of jour-
nalism students, faculty and administrative heads, and no-
tables in the field of communications. This was the first of a
series of programs planned for the year by the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation.

x * * kk

TROUBADOURS

“The Petrified Forest,” initial Troubadour production of
the year, was given on December 10, 11, 12 and 13 in the
Troubadour theatre to capacity audiences and was pro-
nounced as a near-professional performance by those who saw
it. The cast was composed of Washington and Lee students

and student-wives.

eet TES ae ieee

SOUTHERN COLLEGIAN

The revived Southern Collegian, the campus quarterly
literary magazine, made its reappearance in the fall.

— © eee. Se

PREP AND HIGH SCHOOL NEWSPAPER MEET

The return of Mr. O. W. Riegel, Director of the Lee Jour-
nalism Foundation, to the campus after a four-year leave of ab-
sence for domestic and foreign service with the Office of War
Information, has been the signal for the revival of the Univer-
sity’s program of assistance in the scholastic publication field.

Sponsors of Virginia high and prep school publications
were invited to Washington and Lee University on November
2 for the first state-wide conference of its type, conducted by
the University’s Lee Journalism Foundation. This confer-
ence was arranged by Mr. Riegel to provide a means for the
exchange of ideas and practices in all scholastic publications
fields, including newspaper, yearbook and magazine.

x* * * * *

CANDLELIGHT SERVICE

The traditional Candlelight Service, under the auspices
of the Washington and Lee Christian Council, was held at
11 p.m., December 20 in the Robert E. Lee Memorial Epis-
copal Church. Dr. Francis P. Gaines was the speaker and
the Glee Club, making its first appearance of the year, fur-
nished the music, which included both anthems and carols,

CAVE EXPLORING

Cave exploring on an official basis has been started in
Lexington with the formation of the Lexington Grotto, which
held its first meeting on November 21. The Grotto, a branch
of the National Speliological Society, has as its aim the ex-
ploring, study photography, and mapping of the Lexington
area caves. One of the principal undertakings of the Lex-
ington Grotto will be the complete exploration and mapping
of Cave Spring Cave, two miles west of Lexington.

en See Fk!

DR. CRENSHAW PUBLISHES HISTORICAL BOOK

“The Slave States in the Presidential Election of 1860,” by
Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, B.A. ’25, associate professor of his-
tory at Washington and Lee University, has recently been
published by the Johns Hopkins University Press. This is a
careful analytical study of the trend of Southern thought
during the pre-Civil war period. Dr. Crenshaw is currently
writing a history of Washington and Lee to be published in
the latter part of 1948 or early 1949.

Boe LR, {ae
STUDENTS TRANSFER TO UNIV. OF STOCKHOLM

Two Washington and Lee students, Pete Mitchell, of
Martinsville, Virginia, and Bernard Dall, of Kingston, North
Carolina, have transferred to the University of Stockholm
and will sail on the Swedish liner Drottningholm on Jan-
uary 31. While in Sweden their tuition will be paid by the
Veterans Administration and they will each receive $65.00 a
month. They plan to be quartered in Swedish homes with
private families and their information is that all classes will
be conducted in English until students learn Swedish.

Ry Ree
41 STATES REPRESENTED IN STUDENT BODY

Included in a total enrollment of 1,160 now at Washington
and Lee academic and law schools are students from Hawaii,
Norway, Panama, Puerto Rico, and from forty-one of the
forty-eight states in the Union.

k ok ok ok x
PROFESSOR EARL K. PAXTON RESIGNS

Many alumni will regret the resignation of Earl K. Pax-
ton, B.A. ’08, M.A. ’10, associate professor of mathematics
at Washington and Lee since 1920. Mr. Paxton’s resignation
was accepted by the University Board of Trustees with ex-
pressions of appreciation of his long and valuable services.

ee eo J et

ALUMNI AND STUDENTS TAPPED BY ODK

Colgate W. Darden, former governor of Virginia, was
the speaker at the annual tapping exercises for Omicron
Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, on
December 19.

Darden joined a group of other prominent state and na-
tional figures, most of whom are Washington and Lee alumni,
and included Governor Clarence W. Meadows, ’26, Governor
of West Virginia, William M. Tuck, ’21, Governor of Vir-
ginia, to be honored in company with a number of Washing-

[8 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ton and Lee student leaders, who
were tapped in addition to Dar-
den, Meadows and Tuck.

The group included:

16, Con-

Brown,
Ohio.

Clarence J.
gressman from

John W. Eggleston, ’06, Jus-
tice of the Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals.

Henry W. Holt, ’88, Chief
Justice of the Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals.

C. Harold Lauck, director of
the Washington and Lee Jour-
nalism Laboratory Press, form-
er President of the National
Graphic Arts Education Asso-
ciation, and one of the nation’s
foremost printing artists. In 1944
he was winner of the Harry J. ne
Friedman Memorial Gold Medal
for outstanding contributions to
graphic arts education.

Major-General Richard J. Mar-
shall, superintendent of Virginia
Military Institute.

Ben L. Rawlings, Jr., ’30, gen-
eral counsel of the Carnegie-IIli-
nois Steel Corporation.

W. Chapman Revercomb, ’18, United States Senator from
West Virginia.

Clarence R. Avery, '14, President Chattanooga Glass Man-
ufacturing Company and member of the University Board of
Trustees.

Milton B. Rogers, °17, former New York and European
business executive, now executive director of the Washington
and Lee Bicentennial Program.

Abram P. Staples, ’08, Attorney-General of Virginia since
1934.

With the exception of Darden, Lauck and General Mar-

shall, the group is composed of Washington and Lee alumni.

 

Reading from left to right, front row: William M. Tuck, Clarence W. Meadows, W. Chap-
man Revercomb, Clarence J. Brown, Abram P. Staples; back row: Colgate W. Darden,
Richard J. Marshall, Milton B. Rogers, John W. Eggleston, and Clarence R. Avery

 

Student initiates were; James W. Harman, Tazewell, Vir-
ginia; Leo J. Signiago, Jr., Welch, West Virginia; Eugene R.
Marable, Jr.; Robert B. Taylor, “vwnchburg, Virginia; Jon R.
Rugel, Midland, Texas; Marshall S. Ellis, Clarksdale, Missis-
sippi; T. Ryland Dodson, Ringgold, Virginia.

Omicron Delta Kappa, founded at Washington and Lee in
1914, annually honors a small group of alumni and friends of
the institution, along with the selected student group, in rec-
ognition of attained leadership in their respective fields. Since
1914 the fraternity has developed into a national group with
chapters in major colleges and universities throughout the
nation.

 

 

Counseling and Placement Service Established

By William M. Hinton, ’29, Director

In recognition of post war needs and, in line with con-
structive suggestions from the University Affairs Committee
of the Alumni Association and representatives of the Student
Body, the university administration has authorized the cen-
tralization of placement functions at Washington and Lee
under a Counseling and Placement Service. It should be em-
phasized that it is in no wise the purpose of this service to
supplant the excellent work that has been and is being carried
on by Schools and Departments of the University and by the
many individual members of the faculty and administration.
The work of this counseling and placement service will be to
integrate and supplement existing efforts and to provide a
continuing source of additional information and assistance
for students, alumni, administration and faculty.

More specifically this service, under the direction of a

permanent director, will be responsible for the administration
and interpretation of the University Test Program and will
serve as a point of referral for the dean’s office and freshman
advisors of those cases of academic difficulty in which the
desirability of additional objective information is indicated.
In addition, it will cooperate with the Office of the Dean of
Students and with that of the University Physician as a
source of aid to men desiring assistance with personal prob-
lems.

Vocational Counseling will be made available to the stu-
dent by interviews and reference to occupational information
on file in the director’s office and the library. A full supply of
aptitude tests has been procured and will be administered
where, in the individual case, it appears that they might prove
helpful in aiding the student to see his situation more clearly.

[9]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Incidently, the philosophy inherent in any counseling at
Washington and Lee starts with the assumption that coun-
seling should be presented as a way of helping the individual
help himself. This service will make every effort to provide a
point of reference and an atmosphere in which the student,
through utilization of the facilities provided and exploration
of his own situation, comes to see his reactions, potentialities,
and limitations, in short, to see himself more clearly.

The placement phase of this service is merely the logical
extension of the responsibility assumed by the University with
the matriculation of any student; that is, to help him in any
way during his stay as a student or in his post-college status
as an alumnus. The initial emphasis will be placed on making
available to the men now in college information which should
assist them in their search for employment. This will be ac-
complished by requesting them to file their credentials and
preferences with this office. An effort is being made to obtain
all possible information from prospective employers who have
regularly employed Washington and Lee men, and from
others who will be informed of the availability of Washing-
ton and Lee graduates. This information will be on file and
accessible to all students at specified hours during each school
day. It will take some time to organize the service completely
and to collect all desired information, but a consistent develop-
ment of these contacts should assure Washington and Lee a
continuous source of information regarding positions for her
eraduates.

As soon as possible a systematic canvas of alumni needs
will be made. If, however, in the interim, any alumnus wishes
to make use of the service he will receive, upon request, regis-
tration forms for filing his preferences and pertinent educa-
tional and occupational information.

The office of the service will be housed in Room 22, New-
comb Hall, which many alumni will recognize as part of the
offices formerly occupied by President Henry Lewis Smith.
Office hours will be held regularly from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m.,
five days a week, during which students may register, read,
or discuss any employment problems with the chairman or
any members
of the staff.

Alumni can
render inval-
uable service
at all times,
but especial-
ly during our
organt
zation period,
by keeping us
informed of
any openings
that might be
available to
the men of
Washington
and Lee Uni-
versity. Your
cooperation
and = sugges-
tions will as-
sure the suc-

cess of this
sincere effort
on the part

of your Alma
Mater to ren-
der a greater
service.

 

William M. Hinton, ’29

 

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., ’39, was named among the three
winners of Rhodes Scholarships from Virginia, according to
Dr. Frank Aydelotte, American Secretary to the Rhodes
Trustees.

The son of Mrs. E. F. Shannon and the late Dr. Shannon,
world renowned authority on Chaucer and head of the Eng-
lish Department of the University for 24 years, he is now an
instructor and graduate student at Harvard University. An
A.B. of the Class of 1939, Washington and Lee, he holds
a masters degree from Duke University. Entering the United
States Navy as a midshipman and discharged as a Lieutenant
Commander, he was on the USS Quincy when the cruiser
was sunk off Guadalcanal; was awarded ten battle stars, and
served on three Admiralty staffs.

 

 

ST. LOUIS CHAPTER ENTERTAINS

The St. Louis chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni
gave a luncheon for the boys attending Washington and Lee,
who were home for the holidays, on December 30, 1946. The
following alumni were present: Hugh D. McNew, David F.
Crossen, Luther F. Violet, Richard Payne, Jr., William P.
Diggs, M. Alexander Jones, James C. Walker, E. H. Bacon,
A. C. Brown, C. R. Gunter, William C. Edwards, Douglas
Remmers, William McMartin, W .C. Magruder, F. M. Robin-
son, Jr.

Also the following boys attending the University were
present: Roy Johnson, Jr., James F. Brown, Anthony T. Stat-
ler, Edward A. Goodrich, William Milne Fittge, Albert M.
Hamel, Chadbourne B. Smith, Donald M. Bertram.

[ 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Winter Sports at the University

Wrestling

By Warren Merrin

Although Washington and Lee has just returned to inter-
collegiate wrestling after an absence of four years, its team
is still rated by Virginia sports writers as one of the top con-
tenders in the Southern Conference.

Coach Harry Broadbent was faced with an almost total
lack of experienced material around which to build his first
team at the University, but with the help of his student as-
sistant, Ed Waddington, a varsity performer before the war,
who was forced to withdraw from competition because of a
wartime injury, he has turned out a formidable outfit which
has already won its first two matches against Loyola and
Virginia.

Forming the core of the team are the three returning let-
termen: co-captains Charles Steiff, 136 pounder from Balti-
more, Maryland, and Bob Crockett of Tazewell, Virginia, who
performs in the 155 pound class, and Jim Evans, 145 pounds
from Tarentum, Pennsylvania.

Between February 7 and March 1 the Generals meet all
of their conference opponents consecutively. The 17 to 9 win
over Virginia, an experienced and highly rated team, gave
‘ndications of a successful season, but Coach Broadbent
pointed out that, even if such teams as North Carolina State,
North Carolina, VPI, and Duke are successfully subdued,
there will remain the defending conference champions, VMI,

to reckon with in the tourna-
ment.
Broadbent revealed that 1in-

terest in wrestling among the
students is not as high as it was
in the pre-war years, but he ad-
ded that every effort is being
made to stimulate interest. A
new Grapplers’ Club is being
formed for both this purpose
and to promote friendly relations
between the students of Wash-
ington and Lee and those of
VMI. At the end of the season
a banquet will be given by the
club for the wrestling teams of
the two schools, and at this din-
ner two trophies will be awarded
to W. and L. matmen.

The first trophy is the Archie
Mathis trophy, donated by the
beloved mentor in honor of five
men formerly on teams under his
tutelege who were killed in the

war, which will be awarded to
the outstanding wrestler on the
squad.

The second trophy, to be

called the Coaches’ trophy, will
be awarded to the man selected
by the coaches as the most im-
proved wrestler on the team
during the course of the current
season.

Back row: Pierson, Stobbs, Crockett, Chipley, Hillock; center row: Thomas, Early, King,
McDonald, Harner, Ballenger; front row: Bryan, McDowell, Parkinson, Vinson, Ulaki

Basketball

By Brent Breedin

Washington and Lee’s 1947 basketball team with a record
of eight wins in nine starts gives all indications of being the
first General athletic squad to challenge the oft times bril-
liant accomplishments of pre-war predecessors.

Coach Carl Wise appeared dubious concerning the chances
of his first W. and IL. basketball team at the start of the
school year, but the return of lettermen Clancy Ballenger,
Harry Harner, Fred Vinson, and Bill Bryan, the enrollment
of freshmen Don Hillock, Reggie Crockett, George Pierson,
and Steve Ulaki, and the transfer of Bill Chipley from Clem-
son have put the Generals on a par with any of the power-
laden squads of the Southern Conference.

Coach Wise is employing a fast breaking offensive from
his man-to-man defense, but for scoring points the Generals
work to give set-shot artists Pierson, Harner, Ballenger, and
Ulaki opportunities to practice their long range tactics or
pivot men Hillock and Crockett occasions to display their
large variety of hook and underhand shots. Chipley and Vin-
son have played outstanding ball in getting rebounds offen-
sively and defensively.

Christmas vacation found Washington and Lee on the
undefeated lists, following the injury-riddled squad’s vic-
tories over Fort Belvoir, 58-56; Quantico Marines, 67-39;
Langley Field, 43-38; and Camp Lee, 72-31. Brilliant play

VALE

ee are rit

ae}:

VLE ANd
ee A ete

 

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

by high scoring freshmen Hillock and Pierson and the pol-
ished performances of veterans Ballenger and Vinson were
highlights of the pre-Christmas stint. Peak play for the sea-
son to date was reached in the game with the Marines, as
all efforts of the Generals received dividends.

Three days after the return to classes, the W. and L. bas-
ketball squad faced the professional House of David agegre-
gation, and by turning in their second best performance of
the young season, they easily downed the bearded five, 62-47.
Co-captain Harry Harner set a fast pace for his teammates
and led the scoring in his first complete trial of the year with
20 points.

A day’s rest and the Generals appeared ready for Bridge-
water College. This small Virginia quintet proved to be no
match for the alert W. and L. players, and the home team
walloped their opponents, 88-34. Harner led the way for the
second successive time, while Hillock, Pierson, and co-cap-
tain Ballenger continued to maintain their better than ten
point average per contest.

Monday, January 13, found the traditional rivals from
Virginia invading Doremus Memorial Gymnasium, and in
what will surely be considered the most exciting game of the
year, the “Wahoos” were downed by a 54-52 count in the
last three seconds of play. Don Hillock was carried off the
court on the shoulders of jubilant spectators, following his
two game-winning field goals in the last 30 seconds after
Virginia had knotted the score twice in the same period of
time. The final Hillock goal was a pivot shot several paces
beyond the foul circle.

The Thursday afterwards a visiting Maryland squad’s fine
play and ability to make 19 out of 25 foul ‘shots good re-
sulted in the Generals’ only defeat to date, 65-60. Though
fighting all the way, the W. and L,. team did not play its best
ball against the Terps, and team members are waiting for the
second meeting before admitting inferiority.

A 53-46 triumph over VPI, and a 2-0 Big Six record was
the outcome of the final contest played at this writing. Partic-
ipation in their first away game, the Generals showed several
spurts of superior skill in downing the home team. Harner
led the scoring with 13 points.

Washington and Lee must face important Southern Con-
ference opponents, Duke, George Washington, William and
Mary, Richmond, Wake Forest, and Clemson, between now
and March 1. The ability and determination of the Generals’
squad serve to make this difficult schedule somewhat lighter,
and with a few of the important breaks of the game, W. and
L.’s basketeers will complete their season at the Tournament
in Raleigh.

Swimming
By W. C. Merrin

Warning against high expectations for the coming sea-
son, Coach Cy Twombly said that his plans for the W. and
|, swimming team were to lay the groundwork for future
years and to provide enjoyment for the boys on the team.

Hampered by a slow start, an unusually poor turnout of
only fourteen men, and a lack of experienced performers,
T'wombly has scheduled only three meets. One with VPI, and
two during a northern trip with Loyola and Catholic Uni-
versity.

Mehorter and Lynch Christian are the two men with
varsity experience who are counted on heavily, along with
freshman Charles Pacy who shows promise in the 220- and
440-yard events. Another man expected to display ability is
Ray English, 220-yard intramural champion.

In addition to the dual meets, scheduled participation by

the more talented individuals in the State Championship at
Richmond and the Conference Championship at VMI is
being planned.

Squad members include: Bob Mehorter, Maplewood, New
Jersey; Bob Kearse, Charleston, West Virginia; Lynch
Christian, Lynchburg, Virginia; Ray English, Farmingdale,
New Jersey; Charles Pacy, Baltimore, Maryland; Francis
Rushton, Jacksonville, Florida; Jim Little, Lorraine, Ohio;
Bob Cooledge, New York, New York; Frank Carter, Atlanta,
Georgia, Julian Frank, New York, New York; Albert Hamel,
Webster Groves, Missouri; Bob Moody, Floral Park, New
York; and Bill Garvin, Steubenville, Ohio.

 

 

Archie Mathis, former Washington and Lee wrestling
coach, was found dead January 4 at his farm in Vienna, IIli-
nois. Coroner E. A. Welch said that the 43 year old mentor
had died of bullet wounds which appeared to have been self
inflicted.

Mathis greeted Washington and Lee matmen for the first
time in the winter of 1925 and during his 18 years here pro-
duced some of the finest teams in the school’s athletic history.
He brought forth nine Southern Conference Championship
teams and under his tutelage 45 matmen won individual titles
in the conference.

In 1942 Mathis joined the Armed Forces as a Physical
Education Instructor and remained in the service until the
close of the war. Upon being discharged he centered his at-
tention on an Illinois farm, moving to the Middle West and
the University of Illinois.

In the fall of 1946 Mathis expressed his sincere devotion to
Washington and Lee by presenting the Mathis Trophy in
memory of the five outstanding grapplers killed in the war.
The Trophy will be presented annually to the foremost
wrestler on the squad at the close of each season.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Marriages

1927

Allen Harris, Jr., was married to Ruth Roberts Meierhoff
on January 4, 1947, in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Among the grooms-
men were William J. Davis Bell, Jr., ’29, Samuel A. McCain,
27, Graham Morison, ’30, and also attending the wedding were
Allen Wofford, ’33, and James Landon Rule, ’29.

Roy G. Nichols was married to Margaret Watts Shore on
December 26, 1946, in Huntington, West Virginia. They will
make their home at 1500 Cedar Lane, Edgewater, Norfolk,
Virginia.

1929

Henry Poelinitz Johnston was married to Margaret Louise
Feagin on December 26, 1946, in Uniontown, Alabama.

1939

Asa Richard Larrick, Jr., was married to Laura Jane Van
Evera on November 30, 1946, in Crosby, Minnesota.

1941

Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., was married to Julia Claire Court-
ney on November 22, 1946, in Charlotte, North Carolina. Mrs.
William F. Stone, wife of Bill Stone, ’33, was her sister’s
maid of honor, and Tom Martin, ’41 was one of the ushers.

1942
Victor A. Roane was married to Aileen McGehee in Little
Rock, Arkansas, on January 14, 1947.

Leon Worms, Jr., was married to Ruth Rauh Hanstein on
January 4, 1947, in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

1943
William Arthur Webster, Jr., was married to Marie Ro-
berta Stovall on January 11, 1947, in Memphis, Tennessee.

Rev. Robert Francis Johnson was married to Miss Abi-
gail Acker on February 1, 1947, in the James Memorial Chapel
at the Union Theological Seminary, New York.

Births

1933

Mr. and Mrs. Loring M. Garrison, Jr., are the parents of
a son, Loring M., III, born November 19, 1946.

1937

Mr. and Mrs. I. M. Scott are the parents of a daughter,
Betsy Virginia, born December 9, 1946.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Bowles are the parents of a son,
Charles Elmore, III, born January 11, 1947, in Pulaksi, Vir-
ginia.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Whitaker are the parents of a

son, Terrence Michael, born October 13, 1946.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. John Edward Zombro, Jr., are the parents of
a son, John Edward, III, born November 23, 1946.

In Memoriam

1888

Former Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia, Junius E. West,
died January 1, 1947, in Richmond, Virginia.

1894

Rev. M. Ashby Jones, retired minister of the Ponce de
Leon Baptist Church, Atlanta, Georgia, died of a heart at-
tack at his home in Atlanta on January 2, 1947. Widely known
for his belief in justice for everyone without regard to church
affiliation or race, Dr. Jones was beloved by a large circle of
friends and admirers throughout the South.

John Carmichael, Jr., died January 7, 1947, in Hagerstown,
Maryland.
1898

David Moore Barclay died suddenly at his home in Wash-
ington, D. C., January 25, 1947. He was buried in Lexington.

1907

Edward Walthall Freeman died in Jackson, Mississippi,
October 6, 1946.
1909

Samuel Neil Hoshour died at his home in Staunton, Vir-
ginia, Saturday, Febuary 1, 1947, following a heart attack.

1910

John Moore Douglass died January 14, 1947, at his home in
Aldie, Virginia.
1912

Henry Ernest Rechnagel died December 3, 1946, at his
home in New Britain, Connecticut.

1928

Will D. Dickerson, his wife and two small children, Mary
Malinda and Bill, were among the number who lost their lives
in the Winecoff Hotel fire in Atlanta, on December 7, 1946.

VETERAN ALUMNUS INVENTS USEFUL GADGET

If you build a better mousetrap the world will beat a path
to your door. If you build a gadget that will open sardine
and vacuum-sealed cans, lift caps off glass jars, remove beer
and coke bottle caps, start catchup flowing in bottles, spear
olives, cherries and pickles, the world not only beats a path,
it paves a superhighway to the hcuse of its inventor.

That’s what Whitt Schultz, ‘42, a veteran living at 1007
Ridgewood place, Highland Park, Illinois, has done. Today
his “Master Key,” a handy little item, meant to make life
easier for the housewife, is being sold in 16+states and will
soon gleam on counters throughout the country.

After spending two years at Washington and Lee, Whitt
was graduated from Northwestern University in 1942. Two
weeks after graduation he enlisted in the Army. After serving
in various public relations departments in this country, he
was sent to Honolulu and served as sports editor of Brief
magazine, which was distributed to all air force personnel
in the Pacific. When he joined the Stars and Stripes staff he
was transferred from the air force to the armed guard forces
and was appointed a combat correspondent. He was stationed
in Stars and Stripes headquarters in Honolulu until the end
of the war.

[13]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Standing of Alumni Class F und

As of January 1, 1947

 

 

 

 

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

NB 7D Nd ois ono sasi PAIS ciecnieten i Desovsineh Alumni Office  1924-A 2.00... 38... cece GAT. ST .ssresseorssecssssecrenesssen Wyatt French
Ree Meese Diced) MU Biosci cabin oes E. L. Green’ 1924-L ........ 15 ..ccsesossense. 236.00.....ssecseereeenee J. Melvin Lovelace
LBIS 5s eoccacss fsosAidiahien ea sigiiNictieciecth cacy Be As Jee © TRCN oar ID pnsenesecesngnes 4OS. DD .essnsonsaciasdoesvesonsie H. F. McMillan
FORA. citer eels ca OB MNA ia ise sscnjrit incon saaithicnls E. P. Coles 1925-L, ........ Biessceesiscosee 70.00..:ssersessssesesees Geo. S. Wilson, Jr.
ROG eo: oe Bs a? oak John P. Walker 1926-A ........ Raictiecee:: Piha fies snvsokt chiens Carl B. Knight
1896+ 1 tand BS aii ZED clasiciskcanl Marion W. Ripy  1926-L, ......... Rccrtcnscte ie Riad ssicetanare Earle A. Cadmus
RNR a Oaks, Lice hi: Edward Wohlwender = 1927-A 10.0...35 cece BE iN civesnccneinsiosesi George E. Burks
ER el sti ietae Rea ie 160 BR? Edward A. O’Neal 1927-1, ......... Disks, Ae Bite seckceteieh Thomas A. Graves
SOG Fi. i. ee ee 7 | OO nn Nin James A. McClure 1928-A ........ Pecks SU nesknchta atin. William J. Luria
Ft soon tes Decicitestinaliie be csdiaties Alfred Grayson Davis 1928-L ........ OT sseshesenchovabs 145.00,.....00s-ceseceseesonsss T. B. Bryant, Jr.
ire Sate. 7 Se. RINGS etek R. Waller Blain 1929-A ........ OZ vcsasoaniaronees 697.57 ..seccoressnesoneee Henry P. Johnston
| + ae Rik cteatice BI Soir ventdicncctads Volney M. Brown = 1929-L, ........ _ 35.00 M. M. Heuser
RI recuse PO ivvtc trices CEB cineca akties ceili Cary R. Blain 1930-A ........ Wis ciSsatticcis BET OU ctisiniesta Kenneth L. Keil
1906-1, Peete... TOR Otis LES John Henry Day = 1930-L ........ f cmethh boats FOO ceccasicteeticeedh Howard B. Busold
| aa Pi cseidccaits DP Ds siieas cteitaciices Walter G. Riddick 1931-A ........ btadcaaietbeaket PaO iiescovarhiinss Chandler W. Gordon
PONG Sie Bes ioe GEOL ania tid ods Dr. F. R. Crawford  1931-L, ........ Draiiapresicaeniy Ps Oe take saseervesabén John Charles Smith
Wn sia a ee BOOED ig cee iy Vincent M. Miles  1932-A. ........37....c.cscsccsese RBS DD sen cishocsesiteci William C. Mulligan
1908-A ........ Pr ee MONI ia sitisininsanshies Alan Porter Lee  1932-L, ........ Pin cibistin se LBD os iciees talootines George A. Speer, Jr.
1908-L, ........ Ricielad ean A” | ES Alonzo B. McMullen 1933-A ........ Diocesan) DO iti ntnnnn wees Luther F. Violett
1909-A ........ ier cds ak AGS OD i oite ict cade: Sam M. Engelhardt 1933-L, ........ 1 Beep oocesrs James Hoge Tyler, III
1909-I, ........ OO ries DIO ischcvsiec linn Birnie Stedman 1934-A ........ ei aihadcsagaoes WE pM A sake skcosescacsene Richard W. Grafton
SPIORA td DOE: DODGY. 822: SEF Wyatt C. Hedrick 1934-L, ........ Dasipiedbecctase sities tsinnasees Clarence S. Worrell
1910-L, ........ Rodsiicntendviis GROG inciimnincate Retina: Wilber L. Tilden 1935-A ......... eae sina Satin ting. ics chsssicialbe William Schuhle
1911-A ........ 7: ADEM FOF DD cies bacetodhsiien cahache Dr. S..O. Pruitt  1935-I, ...-.... BN Sabon scsshidee AMPs vpicesss E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.
1911-L, ........ Na icc stsects 168.56.. aescte. Luther G. Scott 1936 A ........ itiestbccssers Rae Kenneth P. Lane
1912-A ........ eine ctisecdenss SIO cncigtnttlincteerstaadied J. Frank Key  1936-L, ......., Pidettindacdcew Dis fosinteh chige stereos Hugh D. McNew
1912-L, ......... RR chesledssoid 17 ADO Sicccatien: William J. Wilcox  1937-A ........ MP pia tpsintesios AT Glib sihersGiintiiaian Robert M. Peek, Jr.
1913-A ........ Bebiiitsaiecbdhis SIO BOs. cietchb tinned c. C.. C. Moore’-*. 193745. %....... Race Sas SRS cic -accotaierceeaies Edwin M. Marks
1913-L. ........ RE Di Micra ictbacdeccccntins Ryland G. Craft 1938-A ........ iishswtes cael of Du esincesccentdicteins Charles R. Skinner
1914-A ........ Petsttaracegs Bf Dei aseconcanenitss Edward M. Craig, Jr. 1938-L, ........ Ptdastionntatsds eA sin esctivistigpienticgsiatl Frank L. Price
1914-I, ........ Pa eee iiieccincinee. J. Carlton Hudson  1939-A ........ eR iiclehe ak. AOS BOs iicessiciais Charles H. Semple, Jr.
SORIA a DO a cieecs cass cats Pees bckvctaccvtatt euskal J. Carl Fisher 1939-L, ........ Pistia. ee isvapetip saltiness W. W. Perkins
1915-L, ........ apie tinctides PO assis onitcitstcatsinlin. William H. Oast 1940-A ......... DS stitilicsecsdeca RES Gilbert Gardner
1916-A ........ Se ie. Pick ivessdestlinas tates A. L. Bennett 1940-L, ........ Qo risapetonhis SR sesctaedicesaysenes John F. O’Connor
1916-T ein ee eS SO Bai vich iediticts hick Selden S. McNeer  1941-A ......... ilvicsieithickeos GM isciicsssossnnstguhactpabion Paul D. Brown
1917-A ......... De hcedichadl Oar vccin seat Dr. R. Glenn Craig 1941-L, ........ I RS Di hack. ccecincks Pete S. Barrow, Jr.
1917-L, ......... ait ea. BRET ssdesicertinsgeset Harry V. Campbell 1942-A ........ Bashi iepeaies 653.00.....0:..000. Richard B. Spindle, ITI
SO. iced PE obas PN vsiaseceishibeneewen Fulton W. Hoge  1942-L, ......... ieee sesedahises POI iv cdicsticciectles Robert C. Hobson
ee see Mitt tenestanes 2” 4 eR C. Houston Patterson 1943 2... Ne Si tiesningigaectaheigatal Albert D. Darby
POEIOFA onic ee iste a Thomas M. Stubbs 1944 ou... Berta WED adekecchss icthccatsion R. Bruce Quayle
1920-L, ........ Poids sctctalgsiek ROD Ol sasdss. chtochstkacstar Pinkney Grissom 1945 _........ DOectdtakccscince 145.00 Alumni Office
1921-A ........ eDbectgesinctacrise PEE Mienstibiis sitions John L. Patterson 1946 ......... Se iii edicts 92.50 Alumni Office
ISZ1-Ly *...c:04. Miicsdensitatte BOGS cswssatsndercoess cocenssele B.C Wood 1947. ~.;...:.. Te eiiccniniere 55.00 Alumni Office
1922-A ........ BY cubes captcstag SOP hice. Troy C. Musselwhite 1948 _........ Dv sptisieas 10.00 Alumni Office
I9Z2-15° secs... GA itnaeebas GOs eies sticks R. Bleakley James Hon. Alum. 1..........00. 250.00

1923-A ........ Best Sicvccsdles Pe avls Kasstatteresa George C. Mason [Local Alumni Chapter 16.82

Reeds: csclsces ) EEE pe sictesscisaceterekere Robert H. Carr

 

1986 $23,976.82

In addition to the above, contributions and legacies amounting to $191,500.00
were received by the University from Alumni throught channels other than
the Alumni Fund

[ 14 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Report of the 1946 Alumni Fund

HE FIRST APPEAL for the Washington and Lee Alumni

Fund was made in 1933. Since that time thousands
of loyal alumni have faithfully contributed to the Fund
and it has grown to be one of the University’s great
assets.

This fourteenth Annual Report summarizes another
record in the Fund’s impressive history and is a tribute to
the eighty-six class agents who were responsible for its
outstanding success.

To conform with the Association’s fiscal year the
date set for closing the 1946 Fund was June 30th, but due
to unavoidable delays many class agents did not get their
letters in the mails in time to receive responses before
that date. At the direction of the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees all contributions received by December 31 are in-
cluded in this report. The records show that 1986 alumni
contributed $23,976.82. The 1945 results were 1821 con-
tributors and $23,855.51. It is true the increase in money
received was not large but the gain of 165 contributors
is encouraging. However, the most encouraging thing
about the 1946 Fund does not show in the published
hgures and that is that contributions were received from
299 alumni who have never before responded. Another
gain was in the percentage of contributors. In 1945 we
had a 19% response and in 1946, 21%. On the debit side
our average contribution dropped from $13.10 to $12.07.

The Academic Class of 1929, Henry Johnston, agent
was the leader in the amount of money received, with
the Academic Class of 1931, Chan Gordon, agent, a
close second. For the second year the class of 1943, Al
Darby, agent, led in the number of contributors but 1942
Academic, Dick Spindle, agent, was only one contributor
behind. In the percentage column the Law Classes were
away out in front, 1916, Selden McNeer, agent, was on

top with 68% ; 1922, Bleakley James, agent, was a very
close second with 67%.

Within a very short time the 1947 Fund will be un-
derway. We must clear the decks for “Operation Bicen-
tennial” by June 30.

Won't you do your part by responding promptly to
your Class Agent’s letter?

 

Five Classes Receiving Largest Amount of Money

PTOI snatadutibticcdcbten wi FAROSY:: EF.  TORNSCOU i cceritstidicthoud $697.57
NOS AE iihccrncduccveuil Chandler W. Gordom...............ccccccsees. 694.50
BOE 5  acviccaceresecnuatial PU: 20. DBE ccs danrviendiacdicbadhx 660.50
EORIO ~< siscsinhacddideadesie MOR. de Crawter oie ete oc... 655.00
LOA Ae i aici chccshbds Richard B. Spindle, ITT... 653.00

Five Classes Receiving the Largest Number Contributors

LGA SP cocnres; cocktsidditnccs Baert::D,. Tare: A. wtisdseiniscseaasidichesnes, 78
QOL Pine enn cdaioacagoetes BScramirG, Th. Tien LL Bccisscnnssacecteitscboiess 77
BIAS AR vier ox caindbede RACH -E', COMMER OINE <i. stoics cocissestnshdigtecoviel 62
DO PA o5 ee seonadnsbons ORE Ly: Ri links mtethationichomel 52
ROSA sissies, Acgaiel ebries: Bi Semple: Vi ciisins.csiepsborsctetsedeeceot 51

Five Academic Classes (where classes are divided),
Having Largest Percentage of Contributors

CN ite tilt PMU APOC COE Litt oe its Maes 40%
SP sctnsctovecss.citsionss: Sam M. Engelhardt.................cccce. 30%
See cctinlescssbec.c clans ee, MOON Beicee dc AL es hk nd ARE we 30%
ROB AR al ecesceclivescoiststs ia mma CRN Se 28%
TAZ Airs ishccelateosiset Richard B. Spindle, IIT... 27%

Five Law Classes Having Largest Percentage
of Contributors

 

1889

Dr. James Q. Chambers
Carlisle H. Gilkeson

1879

John M. Glenn
William M. McElwee

1883 1890
John T. Ireland A. K. Bowles
Henry M. Heuser
1886 Frederick M. Hudson
W. J. Humphreys
1891
1888 Thomas Hugh Davis

Frank A. Nelson
Miles Poindexter*

Henry W. Holt
Greenlee D. Letcher

Re By wisi .ivictcadicesscics Gemeente; DCI OE. oie inc, cnssscsbtsidbceadoces 68 %

A Pads ceaatins boae oavied ee in, SRO FOUR inci csi catiode ck. 67%

NOT ete cs See WE EE Any OEE serspetbteiharkd ceili tens: 60%

19S5iT eS ie E. Marshall Nuckkols........é.c.c.c.ccccccccses 55%

BWA Racer Nieeeheste. With B0 MERCER a osicncce kbc loa. 54%
1892 W. C. Morton

 

Rees Turpin

Agent—E, L. Green W. G. Wiglesworth

 

 

Per cent John M. Woods
of Class Donors Amount
1945 55 1] $250.00 1893
1946 45 9 290.00
Se ae Agent—B. A. Judd
‘ee en
John W. Davis on Clee Donors Amount
Herbert Fitzpatrick 1945 25 Y $105.00
E. L. Green 1946 27 8 70.00

William Folsom Moore

 

[15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dr. J. B. Bullitt

Jake Fisher

B. A. Judd

Dr. George Bolling Lee
George C. Martin

H. Waddell Pratt

J. B. Ripy

 

 

Harrington Waddell
1894

Agent—E. P. Coles

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 25 9 $60.00
1946 24 8 65.00
E. P. Coles
Leslie M. Crouch
C. H. Freeman

D. Lawrence Groner
M. H. Guerrant

Dr. Frank Hopkins
W. H. Keister
Walter McElreath

1895

 

Agent—John P. Walker

Per cent

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 17 7 $50.00
1946 11 4 20.00
C. J. Boppell

W. McC. Martin
Lyne S. Smith
John P. Walker

1896

 

Agent—Marion W. Ripy
Per cent

Leroy C. Barret
Bryan Conrad

F. Petrie Hamilton
D. H. Leake

W. J. Lindenberger
Frank Mezick

 

A. H. Reed
T. H. Webb
Edward Wohlwender
1898

Agent—Edward A. O’Neal

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 30 14 $135.00
1946 33 15 160.00

 

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 24 10 $173.50
1946 32 13 256.00
W. D. Adams
J. E. Burwell

Frank J. Fallon*
V. E. Funkhouser
Charles E. Heater
H. H. Larimore*
J. W. Lattomus
J. T. L. Preston
E. A. Quarles
M. W. Ripy

L. W. Smith

S. D. Stokes

Cc. C. Tutwiler

1897

 

Agent—Edward Wohlwender

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 8 $105.00
1946 23 9 135.00

 

Henry W. Anderson
David M. Barclay
Borden H. Burr
Charles J. Faulkner
Norman §. Fitzhugh
R. W. Holt

A. G. Jenkins

W. Ross McCain

E. A. O’Neal

E. W. Ripy

Dr. R. T. Shields

J S. Slicer

Alban G. Snyder

C. W. F. Spencer
W. W. Whitside

 

1899
Agent—James A. McClure
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 28 11 $145.00
1946 30 12 160.00

 

Dr. G. B. Capito
H. St. G. T. Carmichael
H. B. Chermside
W. E. Davis

R. B. Knox*

S. C. Lind

Scott M. Loftin
Dr. J. A. McClure
James Mullen
Arthur M. Shipp
Ewing D. Sloan

 

Cc. P. Snyder
1900
Agent—Alfred Grayson Davis
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 26 7 $150.00
1946 30 8 150.00

 

Alfred Grayson Davis
George Petrie Fishburne
James Emmett Gish
Charles F. Harrison

L. R. Holmes

Dr. S. B. McPheeters

 

J. R. Tucker
R. A. Watson*
1901

Agent—R. Waller Blain

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 23 6 $42.50
1946 30 8 57.50

 

Matthew Page Andrews
R. Waller Blain

Cc. C. Burns

John M. Corbett
Stewart L. Crebs

Hale M. Houston

Dr. A. L. Meredith

E. D. Ott

1902

 

Agent—Volney M. Brown

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 33 14 $195.00
1946 33 13 290.00

 

E. W. G. Boogher

Volney M. Brown

Charles S. Caffery

W. Dewey Cooke

Robert F. Cooper

William T. Ellis

J. Wood Glass

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson
Samuel Price

Osman E. Swartz

 

J. P. Wall
D. E. Witt
Charles Houston Young
1903

Agent—Cary R. Blain

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 41 19 $460.00
1946 43 20 442.50

 

Thomas Ball

Cary R. Blain
Clement A. Boaz
Stuart Chevalier

Dr. Joseph D. Collins
Ballard F. Combs
Robert T. Flanary

J. M. B. Gill

Samuel McP. Glasgow
David V. Guthrie

W. P. Lamar

George Hugh Lee

J. C. McPheeters

D. R. Phelps

Francis T. Reeves

R. A. Ruff

W. J. Turner

Dr. R. T. Wallace
Dr. John W. Warner*
J. F. Wysor

[ 16 ]

 

 

1904
Agent—Dr. John Henry Day
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 30 14 $132.00
1946 41 20 182.50
J. B. Akers

Julian F. Bouchelle
Max M. Brown

Dr. W. Cole Davis
John H. Day

R. J. Dillard

J. W. Harman

George E. Haw

R. E. L. Kolb

M. T. McClure

Edward Campbell Miller
Lyle M. Moffett

George Carrington Moseley
E. W. Poindexter

Dr. S. W. Schaefer
Arthur Tabb

LeRoy Thompson
DeWitt Everett Tucker
William O. Wilson
George G. Worthen*

1905
Agent—Walter G. Riddick

 

Per cent

 

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 28 15 $123.00
1946 30 15 157.00
Anonymous
D. A. Bradham
LeWright Browning
Harvey C. Crabill
J. L. Daniel
A. S. Hays
J. D. Hobbie, Jr.
E. W. Kelly
R. A. Lapsley
W. E. MacClenny
S. B. Mason
D. T. Moore
John A. Moore
W. G. Riddick
Dr. T. D. Sloan
1906
Agent—Dr. F. R. Crawford
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 37 32. $456.00
1946 42 33 655.00

 

Daniel W. Alexander
Henry M. Bandy
James R. Caskie

B. E. Clark

Dr. F. R. Crawford
Edward Lee Davis

L. J. Desha

Cc. A. Dunlap

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Walter H. Dunlap
J. W. Eggleston
Harvey L. Handley
E. V. Hardway

M. Milton Herman
William L. Hoge
J. H. Howell

Dr. T. Brannon Hubbard
Harry Lee Kidd
Claude P. Light
Basil M. Manly

B. J. Mayer

Dr. John N. Osborn
David Pipes

Henry Claude Pobst
Frank K. Rader
Ira T. Ritenour
Ernest B. Roeser
A. W. Rutan

John E. Scott

R. B. Spindle

J. Robert Switzer
H .C. Tillman
Kelly W. Trimble
George W. P. Whip

1907

James M. O’Brien
George E. Penn
A. P. Staples

R. B. Stephenson

 

 

Agent—Vincent M. Miles

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 24 18 $155.00
1946 30 22 239.50

 

C. F. Bagley

T. O. Bagley

C. C. Crockett

W. R. J. Dunn
John W. Flannagan
I. P. Gassman
David H. Hill

E. Clyde Hoge

G. W. Keller

A. R. Larrick

H. S. Larrick

W. L. Lord

D. W. A. MacCluer
M. S. McDonough
Vincent M. Miles
H. W. Miller

H. M. Moomaw

J. S. Moore

Dr. W. B. Newell
Thomas F. Opie
J. M. Sapp

W. F. Semple

1908-L
Agent—Alonzo B. McMillen

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 44 10 $120.00
1946 35 8 92.50

 

 

George E. Cary
Dozier A. DeVane
Hiram M. Dow
A. B. McMullen

1908-A
Agent—Alan Porter Lee
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 39 37 $415.00
1946 40 38 420.00

 

Dr. Grover A. Batten
John M. Bierer

D. P. Boyer
George M. Brandon
J. C. Carpenter, Jr.
Dr. R. A. Dodd

G. C. Gabriel
Harry W. Gassman
Robert C. Glass

W. S. Graham
Julian S. Gravely
Robert R. Gray
Clyde L. Green ©
Luther Duke Harper
T. N. Havlin

J. Peyton Hobson
W. P. Hooper
Richard W. Hynson
W. M. Johnson
Robert S. Keebler
Louis K. Koontz
Alan Porter Lee

A. W. Lybrand
John W. Lykes

H. R. Mahler

R. C. Milling

J. M. Moore

Philip P. Page

R. L. Page

Earl K. Paxton

W. M. Paxton

H. W. Phillips
William F. Riser
Ben T. Smith
Elmer W. Somers
A. D. Somerville

C. L. Syron

P. W. Turner

1909-L

 

Agent—Beirne Stedman
Per cent

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 52 11 $292.50
1946 46 10 277.50
L. J. Boxley
C. I. Carey

Melvin E. Cruser
David R. Dunham
H. L. Hooker

M. L. Lazarus

G. P. McCord
Reuben Ragland

‘ Daniel K. Sadler

Beirne Stedman

1909-A

 

Agent—Sam M. Engelhardt

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
26 23 $338.50
30 26 465.00

1945
1946

 

Harvey Allen
Robert R. Brown
L. C. Caldwell
John L. Campbell
A. H. Chandler
C. T. Chenery
John W. Claudy
S. G. Coe

G. T: Dawkins

. W. T. Delaplaine

Kester W. Denman
G. J. Dominick
Sam M. Engelhardt
Chas. S. Glasgow
Devall L. Gwathmey
A. L. Herold

Carl Hinton

S. N. Hoshour

Dr. A. A. Houser
Sorsby Jamison

Ben K. Kagay

J. T. Lykes

W. E. Moreland
Oscar R. Price
Elliott Vawter
Levi T. Wilson

1910-L

 

Agent—Wilber L. Tilden

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
40 10 $225.00
60 15 440.00

1945
1946

 

James M. Carson
Anonymous

James B. Denny
D. W. Earman
Russell L. Frink
H. R. Hawthorne
Charles E. Heaton
Walter M. Hood
R. P. Ingram
Harry J. Lemley
Walter McDonald
H. M. Myerson
Orange Richardson
Wilber L. Tilden
Grover C. Worrell

1910-A

 

Agent—Wyatt C. Hedrick

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 24 27 $312.00
1946 24 26 260.00

 

[17]

Rayford W. Alley
Louis W. Baker

J. M. Bell

Joseph R. Blackburn
Hamilton A. Derr
Robert W. Dickey
Lester B. Dutrow
C. I. Dwiggins
Charles R. Hauke
Wyatt C. Hedrick
P. A. Herscher
Robert S. Hutcheson
M. Cary Johnston
James N. Montgomery
Philip W. Murray
J. W. Rader
Charles P. Robinson
James R. Simmonds
Robert B. Stotler

R. M. Strassel

C. W. Streit

R. G. Thach

John H. Tucker
Larry W. Wilson
Hugh M. Witt

B. L. Wood

1911-L

 

Agent—Luther G. Scott
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 26 12 $131.00
1946 40) 19 168.50

 

Ben P. Ainsworth
G. M. Alexander
E. W. Barger

F. C. Bedinger

Dr. James W. Bruce
George Chaney
Rosser J. Coke
William S. Engleby
James E. Greever
H. B. Gregory
Omer T. Kaylor

E. R. Molesworth
Cleaton E. Rabey
Robert A. Russell
F. B. Richardson
Luther G. Scott
Donald T. Stant

 

D. B. Straley
J. T. Watson
1911-A

Agent—Dr. S. O. Pruitt

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 24 28 $557.00
1946 22 26 367.00

 

W. C. Armentrout

J. P. Barclay

James M. Barker, Jr.
Dr. C. A. Boone

E. E. Brown

Michael Brown, Jr.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Lewis G. Cooper
Henry W. Dew

F. P. Guthrie
Courtney S. Henley
Dr. John G. Herndon
L. L. Humphrey
F. S. Johnson

J. G. Johnston

H. W. King

Philip L’Engle
Clement McMullen
Ulen G. Medford
Henry Moncure

W. T. Neel

Dr. S. O. Pruitt
W. A. Reid
Thomas B. Ruff

Cc. W. Tharpe
Brown D. Truslow
Jefferson F. Walter

1912-L
Agent—William J. Wilcox

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 24 9 $100.00
1946 44 15 175.00
Byron L. Ballard

Harry Baumgardner

John F. Chatfield

J. L. Crowgey

Robert C. Dow

W. S. Dunn

Wayne Ely

Francis J. Heazel

Alonzo G. Lively

William Hodges Mann

J. B. Watts

William J. Wilcox

Clayton E. Williams

Russell B. Wine

Damon G. Yerkes

1912-A
Agent—J. Frank Key

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 20 26 $367.50

1946 16 22 430.00

H. E. Potter

Leonard B. Ranson
Frank R. Ruff

Dr. J. E. Weatherford
William L. Webster
W. P. Willson

1913-L

 

Agent—Ryland G. Craft

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 36 16 $190.00
1946 37 18 236.50

 

 

R. R. Blake

George L. Coyle
Mason C. Deaver
Howard A. Doss
Isadore Forman
Thomas McP. Glasgow
Cecil Gray

Arlos J. Harbert

Dr. Freeman H. Hart
Dr. J. O. Hodgkin
Dr. J. M. Holloway
J. Frank Key

Edward Lyons

Allan McDowell

C. Lee Ordeman
Dan Owen

Robert B. Adams
Harvey B. Apperson
Beverley D. Causey
William C. Coulbourn
Ryland G. Craft

E. C. Dickerson
Stanford L. Fellers
Henry B. Goodloe

C. E. Hunter

T. L. Keister

H. W. Kelly

Howard P. Macfarlane
S. W. Maytubby
Junius W. Pulley
Howard L. Robinson
Thomas F. Walker
H. M. Woodward

 

H. W. Wyant
1913-A
Agent—C. C. Moore
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 33 36 $841.00
1946 30 34 510.00

 

Paul C. Buford

Paul D. Converse
John L. Crist

Dr. Herman P. Davidson
Edward S. Delaplaine
George West Diehl
Ben F. Fiery

Philip P. Gibson
Carter Glass, Jr.
William T. Hanzsche
William A. Hyman
Edison C. Jalonick
Thomas S. Kirkpatrick
F. W. McWane

Carl C. Moore

Harry E. Moran
Henry E. Peeples
Dr. J. P. Richardson
S. C. Rose

Alexander Sloan
Richard A. Smith
Marion A. Stevenson
Gaylord J. Stone
Bland Terry

W. Taylor Thom, Jr.
W. L. Tucker

Lewis Twyman

Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug
Robert K. Williams
Adrian Williamson

R. R. Witt

W. H. Womeldorf
William A. Wright

C. H. Zerkle

1914-L

 

Agent—J. Carlton Hudson
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 27 9 $1,065.00
1946 44 14 595.00

 

R. Lee Beuhring

A. C. Buchanan
Stephen F. Chadwick
Charles W. Crush

‘J. Carlton Hudson

William T. Lovins
Ernest S. Merrill
Harry Lewis Miller
C. H. Morrissett
Junius L. Powell
Ben D. Smith
Merriman S. Smith
Kennon C. Whittle
Samuel H. Williams

1914-A

 

Agent—Edward M. Craig, Jr.

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 18 24 $334.10
1946 24 33 575.00

 

C. R. Avery

W. Houston Barclay
Henry N. Barker
William M. Brown
Dr. D. C. Buchanan
Dr. Buford S. Burks
Edward M. Craig, Jr.
Fred Davis

Dr. Carl A. Day
James M. Farrar
Lee R. Grabill, Jr.
Wilbur C. Hall

Alex M. Hitz, Sr.

R. P. Hobson
Joseph G. Jackson
Sam Laughlin, Jr.
A. W. McCain

Dr. Roy B. McKnight
Morris L. Masinter
Dr. V. M. Matthews
John Scott Moore
Stuart Moore

Col. Paul J. B. Murphy
M. F. Null

Thomas F. Ogilvie
Leon O’Quinn
Clarence L. Sager
Dr. J. W. Selig
Ray Smith

J. D. Thornton

[18]

J. E. Wayland
J. Clyde Whetzel
W. J. Wilkins

1915-L

 

Agent—Judge Wm. H. Oats

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 18 5 $1,812.50
1946 40 12 505.00

 

Arthur M. Birdsall
Leon Harris
Joseph W. Hodges
H. B. Jordan

W. A. Keleher
W. Guy Laughon
Joseph W. Milner
William H. Oast
Ralph Kent Robertson*
K. L. Shirk

J. D. Trimble
Herman Ulmer

1915-A

 

Agent—J. Carl Fisher

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 20 22 $378.00
1946 28 29 395.00

 

Robert P. Adams
QO. B. Barker, Jr.
Charles R. Beall
James E. Bear
Jerry A. Burke
Madison P. Coe
Carl S. Davidson
Walter M. Dunlap
J. Carl Fisher

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes
C. C. Holcombe
Woodson P. Houghton
J. L. Howerton
Morgan Keaton
Sam Keller

Jonah L. Larrick
Rupert N. Latture
Charles T. Lile
Summerfield McCarteney
S. E. Oglesby
Walter C. Preston
George R. Shaw
William H. Smith
T. H. Stukes

Cc. M. Switzer

Paul C. Thomas

F. A. Weatherford
Ki Williams
Clarence E. Womble

 

 

1916-L
Agent—Selden S. McNeer
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 59 22 $160.50
1946 68 26 192.50

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Charles R. Brown, Jr.
Clarence J. Brown
J. E. Buckley

Parker W. Buhrman
William Henderson Estes
Norvin C. Evans
Grady H. Forgy
Lycurgus Hyre

H. J. Kiser

Sam P. Kohen

S. S. McNeer
Edmund Magers
John Rives Manning
E. S. Marshall

John William May
Clyde H. Miller
Thomas A. Myles
Vivian L. Page

F. Stanley Porter
Earl B. Rose

Paul R. Scott
George D. Shore
Hunter M. Shumate
G. S. Watson

R. A. Wellons
George H. Williamson

1916-A

Agent—A. L. Bennett

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 28 27 $302.50
1946 23 22 239.50

 

Battle Bagley

A. L. Bennett

C. Lynch Christian
Dr. Charles J. Devine
David A. Falk
Horner C. Fisher

Dr. R. P. Hawkins, Jr.
M. Cecil Horner

R. Hugh Jarvis
Reuben A. Lewis
Harrison P. Magruder
J. G. C. Myers

Dr. R. G. Nelson
Russell S. Rhodes

M. B. Ridenour

J. C. Rivers

Dr. H. M. Rowan
Elwood H. Seal

J. M. Twyman

D. Easley Waggoner
Lorentz T. White
Bruce F. Woodruff

1917-L

 

Agent—Harry V. Campbell
Per cent

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 40 12 $120.00
1946 40 12 137.50
E. P. Barrow

Harry V. Campbell
Clarence W. Carter

Lafayette B. Chafin
Richard C. Cole
George N. Danielson
Gabriel de la Haba
J. S. Hansel

Claude R. Hill

Gus Ottenheimer
Charles G. Peters
Herbert G. Peters
Robert M. Jeter, Jr.
Robert S. Junger

1917-A

 

Agent—Dr. R. Glenn Craig

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 22 25 $395.00
1946 26 32 630.00

 

Henry Blackford
Paul D. Barns

Dr. W. H. Brandon
W. O. Burtner

J. R. Campbell
Robert M. Campbell
Jackson R. Collins
William J. Cox

Dr. R. Glenn Craig
J. M. Faulkner

J. H. Forbes

Frank J. Gilliam

R. H. Gardner

H. T. Hagan

Dr. S. Palmer Hileman
E. L. Hix

Homer A. Jones
James A. Lee
Robert B. McDougle

- Roy D. McMillan

Dr. C. W. MecNitt

R. B. Morrison

A. G. Paxton

Junius B. Powell
Milton B. Rogers

C. R. Stribling, Jr.
Marshall G. Twyman
T. CC. Waters

J. L. Williams
Marion deWitt Williamson*
G. R. Womeldorf

H. K. Young

1918

Homer A. Holt
W. S. Hopkins
James Lewis Howe, Jr.
Robert V. Ignico
James J. Izard

G. P. Macatee, Jr.
John L. McChord
John D. McCready
A. S. Marx

S. E. Moreton, Jr.
E. K. Nelson, Jr.
M. W. Paxton
John G. Ramey
Murray C. Shoun
D. C. Sloan
William H. Smith
John H. Sorrells
Otto M. Stumpf
Francis H. Styles
V. J. Trotter
Leonce Vaughan, Jr.
Alex S. Watkins
T. G. Woodson

 

1919
Agent—C. Houston Patterson
Per cent ,
of Class Donors Amount
1945 16 21 $195.00
1946 18 24 232.00

J. M. Glickstein
Pinkney Grissom
Fred D. Townsend

1920-A

 

Agent—Thomas M. Stubbs

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 20 30 $361.00
1946 20 31 301.50

 

 

 

Agent—Fulton W. Hoge

 

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 23 29 $277.00
1946 24 31 332.00
J. C. Ambler
Allein Bell, Jr.
R. M. Bear

A. B. Bowman

EK. V. Bowyer
Edmund D. Campbell
Horace C. Hearne
Fulton W. Hoge

Sam H. Baker

W. F. Barron
Leonard T. Brown
W. Roy Campbell
Sim B. Christy, Jr.
A. D. Collins

J. W. Cook, Jr.
Arthur M. Cromwell
Dr. T. Dewey Davis
James R. Fain
Henry P. Forker
Thomas W. Gilliam
Harry E. Handley
Mason M. Hurd
John A. Johnston
Louis A. McMurray
Norman R. Miller
C. Houston Patterson
Clifford McC. Peale
Thomas M. Pitts
Charles H. Taylor
Dr. Reid White
Fran Wissler

John H. Young, Jr.

 

1920-L
Agent—Pinkney Grissom
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 30 8 $67.50
1946 27 7 165.00

 

M. R. Broudy
L. Berkeley Cox
Fadjo Cravens
John W. Drye

[19 ]

Edward G. Bailey
Fred M. Bailey

R. E. Baumgardner
R. M. Cabell

James Waller Callison
J. Sims Edmondson
Willis M. Everett, Jr.
J. Glen Evins, Jr.
Carl A. Foss

IL. W. Gilkison
James P. Hill, Jr.

J. C. Hobson

W. E. Johnston

C. E. Kievlan

R. W. Lowe

C. D. McCabe

C. Howard McCain
James W. McKnown
Ott Magruder
Harry L. Moore
George S. Mueller
Howard E. Nay

W. F. Parker

H. S. Powell
Emmett W. Poindexter
J. E. Richardson
Holmes Rolston
Thomas M. Stubbs
Samuel O. Sullivan
Henry Ford Trotter
Alex M. Walker

 

1921-L
Agent—R. C. Wood
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 31 12 $107.50
1946 50 20 243.00

 

J. Franklin Bain
John Bell

James W. Blanks
Philo Coco

D. B. Dawson
Robert Lee Garrett
H. K. Gibbons
Carl E. L. Gill
Roy J. Grimley

Dr. Charles A. Haney
B. F. Howard
Carlton E. Jewett
Alfred B. Levin

J. Edward Moyler
Dean Owens

Fred C. Parks

R. Paul Sanford

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

D. A. Taylor
William M. Tuck
R. C. Wood

1921-A

 

Agent—John L. Patterson
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 32 35 $283.50
1946 22 23 225.00

 

Gayle G. Armstrong
Dr. John T. Bate

A. Milling Bernstein
Albert D. Burk
Harry B. Burt

H. Gray Funkhouser
Dr. R. D. Garcin, Jr.
A. M. Gilbert
Freeland A. Henry
Homer E. Henderson
J. B. Hoke

David D. Johnson

W. R. Knebelkamp
Frank Love

Lewis S. Musgrove
J. L. Patterson

T. Carson Penn
Frank M. Pollock

Dr. Sam Raines
William J. Rushton
James R. Stuart
Edward L. Westbrooke, Jr.
Dr. Carl Wilmar White

 

1922-L
Agent—R. Bleakley James
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 40 4 $35.00
1946 67 6 50.00

 

Edgar Jackson

R. Bleakley James

A. J. Lubliner

W. E. Neblett

Joe L. Silverstein
George W. Taliaferro

 

 

1922-A
Agent—Troy C. Musselwhite
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 28 $325.00
1946 20 27 385.00
J. G. Allen

Dr. Andrew E. Amick
Robert M. Bear
Benjamin J. Broach
Byron C. Browder
Guy Campbell

James A. Cranford
Louis A. Dunlap
Garland Gray

Charles O. Handley

Matthew C. Henderson
Verbon E. Kemp
Moses Herman Levi*
James P. Mattox
William F. McCann

L. W. Milbourne
Charles Henry Miller
Troy C. Musselwhite
J. Lindsay Patton

W. J. L. Patton

W. Frank Portlock
Dr. Dewey A. Reynolds
Harry C. Robert

Dr. Bennett F. Roberts
Dr. Huston St. Clair
W. H. Trotter, Jr.

W. A. Williams, Jr.

1923-L

 

Agent—Robert H. Carr

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 24 6 $45.00
1946 46 12 85.00

 

Robert H. Carr

B. O. Faulconer
Cyrus W. Hall
Wilbert H. Haynes
George T. Holbrook
George P. Howard
John J. Hudak
Roger B. Jones
Alfred L. McCarthy
Lidell Peck

J. G. Ragsdale

French R. McKnight
Frederick E. Pass

J. Vaughn Penn
Douglas S. Perry

George Herbert Smith

F. L. Sattes

D. Raymond Snively
Thomas M. Wade
Frank Leslie Wall
Junius W. C. Wright, Jr.

 

 

 

 

R. B. Stuart
1923-A

Agent—George C. Mason

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 9 18 $138.50
1946 16 32 342.50
L. H. Benton

G. E. Berson, Jr.
John D. T. Bold

Dr. John H. Bonner
George Henry Bowers
Edwin Day Bozeman
E. W. Cummings
Thomas Jean Ellis
John Bruce Gordon
George Edward Harris
Fred C. Henritze
Frank B. Hurt
Weldon T. Kilmon
A. J. Lester

Joseph R. Long, Jr..
William W. Lynn, Jr.
George C. Mason
David H. Matson

H. D. Maupin

O. W. McClintock

J. W. McDonald, Jr.
OQ. Forrest McGill

David Pointer, Jr.
Turner Rice

James Frost Riley, Jr.
Barrett C. Shelton
H. O. Shropshire
Charles S. Stone
Frank C. Switzer
John N. Thomas
Norfleet Turner
Vickers B. Watts
John Higgins Williams

 

 

 

 

1924-L Dr. C. H. Wilson
Agent—J. Melvin Lovelace 1925-L
P t
of Class Donors Amount Agent—George S. Wilson, Jr.
1945 32 11 $95.00 Per cent
1946 44 15 236.00 of Class Donors Amount
1945 52 11 $100.00
Charles A. Cohen 1946 840 8 70.00
W. Clyde Dennis
Thomas P. Duncan, Jr. E. M. Abernathy
S. Arthur Glixon Meredith F. Baugher
John W. Greene Sam Bucholtz
J. Melvin Lovelace George T. Clark
B. L. Malone, Jr. Luther L. Copley
M. P. Matheney Clarence E. Hinkle
Edward L. Oast W. A. McRitchie
Sinclair Phillips George S. Wilson
Walter H. Scott
Harry L. Shuey 1925-A
Louis H. Towbes ;
James Arthur Wood Agent—H. F. McMillan
; P t
Randolph G. Whittle of Class Donors Amount
1924-A 1945 14 34 $922.50
Agent—Wyatt French 1946 15 35 465.50
Per cent C. T. Altfather
of Class Donors Amount R. F. Bolling, Jr.
1945 14 34 $345.79 “Frank L. Bowers
1946 15 38 447.57 W. E. Brock, Jr.

 

E. Almer Ames, Jr.
Anonymous

Berry B. Brooks

E. M. Cameron

C. F. Carlson

T. H. Clay, III

Dr. J. T. Collins
Dennis B. Edwards
Walter A. Flick
Wyatt French

William S. Gay
Edward Douglas Gibson
Edwin J. Gibson

John G. Guerrant
William Hellier

John F. Hendon
Edwin H. Howard
Otis Howe

Henry W. Jones
William P. Kirkman
Dr. Thomas Leslie Lee -
Dr. Joe S. McMath . .

' Whitney Peden

Charles H. Phillips
Albert M. Pickus
Francis W. Plowman

[ 20 }

E. W. Brown

Dr. C. T. Burton
Albert C. Deutsch
Charles L. Gaines, Jr.
Bruce F. Gannaway
Abe Goodman, Jr.

R. F. Goodrich

Tom M. Harman
Charles S. Heilig

J. M. Holt

Philip Howerton
Marvin F. Hummer
H. R. Jenkins
Murrell D. Klein

V. J. Kreienbaum

M. C. Langhorne

H. F. McMillan
William B. Mack

E. S. Mattingly

C. W. Rex

H. Edward Rietze, Jr.
Wilson M. Roach
William A. Robertson
Julian W. Ross
Andrew T. Roy
Allen Rushton
Greenberry Simmons

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

T. M. Simmons

Harold D. St. John
Jesse Tow

Dr. William L. Woolfolk

1926-L

 

Agent—Earle A. Cadmus
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 20 3 $30.00
1946 37 6 50.00

 

Earle A. Cadmus
W. Randolph Cosby
Ralph Masinter
James K. Thomas
Warren E. Tilson
Earl L. Valentine

 

1926-A
Agent—Carl B. Knight
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 7 17 $114.50
1946 20 43 391.00

 

E. G. Barker

Henry H. Breazeale
J. Lukin Brown
Nelson W. Burriss
Jack G. Chapman

A. R. Coleman
William W. Davis
Edward A. Dodd

Lee O. Fagan
Edward Felsenthal
Thomas Preston Foley
Rufus A. Fulton

John B. Funk

James R. Hendrix
George Lee Hill

B. G. Howard
Kenneth C. Kimbrough
Carl B. Knight
Charles Carter Lee
Dr. Henry Lee
Robert Everett Lee
R. W. Livingston

Dr. C. W. Lowry, Jr.
Malcolm H. MacBryde
Emmett W. MacCorkle
W. R. Marchman
John T. Martin
Edward Matz
Clarence W. Meadows
Eugene A. Nabors
Juan Navarro, Jr.

Dr. T. R. Nichols
Stanley Osserman

P. M. Schuchart
James R. Thames

R. H. Thatcher

Carl J. Wallin

D. C. West

Millar B. White

Dr. L. E. Wice
George B. Wilkinson

W. Burke Williamson
Dr. S. G. Wolfe

 

1927-L
Agent—Thomas A. Graves
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 65 13 $90.00
1946 50 10 80.00

 

Agent—T. B. Bryant, Jr.

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 35 7 $90.00
1946 35 7 145.00

 

 

John DeWeese Carter
Thomas A. Graves
George F. Maynard, Jr.
Euclin D. Reeves
Charles T. Smith

L. Storey Stemmons
John O. Strickler
George D. Varney
Rhea Whitley

Gibson Witherspoon

 

 

1927-A
Agent—George E. Burks
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 12 29 $298.00
1946 14 35 437.50
J. E. Birnie

La Rue Bowker

Leigh D. Bulluck, Jr.
George E. Burks
Charles L. Claunch

Dr. H. Reese Coleman
Kenneth A. Durham
George T. Ellis

R. T. Foree, Jr.

W. E. Gage

Peter C. Gearhart*
Leroy Vaughan Grady
Allen Harris, Jr.

Dr. Thomas L. Harris
Henry A. Ingalls, Jr.
William Matt Jennings
Joe L. Lanier

Stanley Briggs Lawson
Alma Z. Litz

Gossett W. McRae

J. Preston Moore
Marvin E. Newbern, Jr.
Roy G. Nichols
Claggett Offutt

G. C. Olson

William Dorsey Parker
William M. Pope
Luther H. Redcay
Zack Broadus Rogers, Jr.
J. Arthur Smith

G. W. Summerson

Dr. Herbert W. Virgin, Jr.
David H. Wice

James C. Wilbourn
William Lyne Wilson

1928-L

T. B. Bryant, Jr.
George Oldham Clarke
Paul E. Daugherty

Russell Wood Jordan, Jr.
John L. Lancaster

John Dillon McHugh

W. P. Woodley

1928-A

 

Agent—William J. Luria

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

 

1945 9 21 $265.50
1946 10 24 250.00
W. D. Bach

Dr. R. Alexander Bate, Jr.
Bern K. Bullard, Jr.
H. Harris Butler
Percy Cohen

J. B. Copper

William D. Dickerson
John Quincy Dickinson
Henry Halle, Jr.
Wilmot L. Harris
Garland H. Hayes
Gerald F. Horine
Stephen F. Jones
Joseph Kaplan
Charles H. Lindfors
W. J. Luria

W. C. Magruder, Jr.
Edward H. Miller
William C. Norman

J. Davis Reed, Jr.

F. W. Sherrill

Philip D. Sprouse
Edward M. Streit
Stuard A. Wurzburger

 

1929-L
Agent—M. M. Heuser
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 27 4 $20.00
1946 35 6 35.00

 

Philip R. Becker

Carl W. Hamilton

M. M. Heuser

Robert D. Powers, Jr.
Samuel J. Thompson
John Bell Towill

1929-A

 

Agent—Henry P. Johnston
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 17 45 $352.00
1946 23 62 697.57

 

Anonymous
Robert S. Bacon

[21 |

W. J. D. Bell

Julius G. Berry

Dr. W. T. Black
Alfred Boyd, Jr.
Albert Peyton Bush
James A. Castner

W. F. Chandler
Robert C. Copenhaver, Jr.
Ben C. Eastwood
John V. Eddy

Harry T. Ferris

Earl A. Fitzpatrick

E. Lee Gamble
George Henry Goodwin
Howard W. Gwaltney
John Hamman, Jr.
Norman E. Hawes
Robert W. Hawkins
Herman H. Hellriegel
Hunter H. Huffman
Henry P. Johnston
Alfred Junkin

W. C. Kelly

D. T. Kimbrough, Jr.
George H. Lanier, Jr.
William W. LaPietra
Robert B. Lee

J. E. Lewis, Jr.

Joseph L. Lockett, Jr.
William B. Lott
Edwin F. Madison
John W. Malone

A. L. McCardell, Jr.
W. A. MacDonough
Allen B. Morgan
Harry H. Newberry
Francis T. Parker
Robert W. Pharr
Walter N. Pharr
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
Fred C. Proctor
James W. Rainer
Harry Chapman Rand
James L. Rule

James J. Salinger
Ernest E. Sanders

Dr. Irwin T. Sanders
Arnold A. Schlossberg
James M. Shackelford
J. M. Sherwood

Dr. O. Norris Smith
Thomas J. Sugrue

Dr. James W. Tankard
William C. Watson
W. C. P. Weaver

P. C. Whitlock
Walter H. Wilcox, Jr.
Dr. Robert H. Williams
George M. Wright, Jr.
Sydney M. Wright

 

1930-L
Agent—Howard B. Busold
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 30 6 $40.00
1946 35 7 40.00

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Howard B. Busold
Leonard H. Davis
Hubert Lee Echols
Morton E. Padgett, Jr.
B. L. Rawlins, Jr.

F. L. Shipman
Thomas D. Shumate

1930-A

 

Agent—Kenneth L. Keil

 

Agent—John Charles Smith

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 4 $50.00
1946 32 6 80.00

 

 

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 10 27 $238.50
1946 18 49 417.00
W. T. Alsop

Julian H. Black

L. P. Brown, III

W. E. R. Byrne, Jr.
Robert E. Clapp, Jr.
Dr? ET .- Clark, Fr.
Charles Wilbur Cocke
James Marvin Countiss
Milton J. Dattel
James William Davis
R. W. Davis, Jr.
Frank O. Evans

I. D. Felder, Jr.

F. W. Fesenmyer

I. L. Flory, Jr.

Willis Van Gilbert
Howerton Gowen

G. E. Grashorn
Edward S. Graves

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton
Abbott A. Harman
Abner M. Harvey
William H.. Hawkins
James N. Hess
Thomas J. Hughes, Jr.
Herbert G. Jahncke
George M. Jennings
Dr. E. T. Jones
Kenneth L. Keil

C. E. Kennemer, Jr.
Harry C. Lawder, III
M. Philo Lindsey
Dr. John P. Lynch
Robert V. May
James B. Merrick
Gus E. Mitchell
David H. Moreton

R. O. Morrow
Robert W. Moseley
John H. Nelson

S. R. Nichols

J. Arlington Painter
A. I. Roberson

G. A. Sprinkle, III
Albert Steves, III
Merle Suter

W. G. Tarrant
Claude E. White

J. A. Williamson

1931-L

Ethan Allen
Horace Gooch, Jr.

Walter E. Hoffman
James B. Martin
John Charles Smith
Manuel Weinberg

 

 

Agent—James H. Tyler, III

Per cent

 

 

 

1931-A
Agent—Chandler W. Gordon
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 16 45 $447.00
1946 18 50 694.50

 

J. H. Alexander

Ben M. Ayars

W. P. Ballard

Philip Barkus

F. M. Barron

Dr. L. C. Borland
Watson A. Bowes
Frank T. Bready

Dr. William B. Carrell
Sidney W. Clay

F. B. Collett

David N. Conn
John M. Dean

R. B. Fangboner
John G. Faulkner

M. L. Glover
Chandler W. Gordon
Ralph P. Grant

Dr. Huger T. Hall
John Henderson, Jr.
O. Kenneth Hickman
Paul A. Hornor
George Junkin

B. J. Lambert, Jr.

T. C. Lancaster
Herman Littman
Jack C. Lovelace
Herbert B. Luria
George M. Lupton
James Lee Lytle, Jr.
E. E. McCarthy
Duncan McConnell
Dr. John O. McNeel
Joseph B. Magee
Henry R. Mahler
John Kell Martin, Jr.
S. A. Milliner, Jr.
George L. Minter, Jr.
Lloyd A. Myers, Jr.
John Myrose

Alfred D. Noyes
Gilmore Nunn

B. M. Osowitz

Dr. W. V. Rucker
Daniel Sherby
George H. Snyder, Jr.
John M. Stemmons
John H. Thomas :
Dr. Alexander Vance
George Walden

1932-L

Agent—George A. Speer, Jr.

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 36 8 $58.00
1946 50 11 105.00
Martin P. Burks, III
H. B. Heaps
Paul A. Holstein
H. N. Joyce

Henry W. Mackenzie, Jr.
Ross L. Malone

Jack N. Matthews
Albert G. Peery

James D. Sparks
George A. Speer

Charles A. Wood, Jr.

 

of Class Donors Amount
1945 25 4 $40.00
1946 37 6 55.00
Jerome Framptom, Jr.
H. Cavett Robert
W. F. Stone
James Hoge Tyler, III

1933-A

Agent—Luther F. Violett

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 16 40 $380.50
1946 20 51 436.00

 

 

1932-A
Agent—William C. Mulligan
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 13 36 $258.37
1946 13 37 462.00

 

M. W. Adelson

C. Edmonds Allen, Jr.
Malcolm D. Campbell, Jr.
Everett N. Cross
David F. Crossen
Frank H. Cunningham
Charles H. Davidson
Dr. Frank F. Ellis, Jr.
Eli Fink

Woodson B. Gillock
John G. Hamilton
Thomas W. Hancock
Collas G. Harris

John Clinton Harris
Horace A. Hartgrove
Robert K. Hoadley
John Robert Hornor
William D. Hoyt, Jr.
Z. V. Johnson, Jr.
William C. Kimbrell
James Erroll Leslie
Charles E. Long, Jr.
Jack Gordon Marks
R. Leighton McKinney, Jr.
Dr. James W. McLaurin
Richard E. Morrison
Dr. George W. Morse
William C. Mulligan
J. D. Parker

R. O. Parmelee

David George Price
Charles F. Richardson
Beverly H. Smith

J. W. Smither, Jr.

Dr. Jack J. Stark
John S. Teggart

|. C. Varner

1933-L

Bernard B. Davis
John L. Ericson

[ 22 |

Harold Abramson

E. Jerome Ade

Henry F. Arnold
Edwin H. Bacon

Joe F. Bear

T. Deale Blanchard
Shelby W. Blatterman
Irving B. Bricken

W. J. Brooks

Frank E. Calhoun
Howard Dye Carver
Edwin W. Chittum
J. Frederick Cook

M. Hoge Crighton
John A. Culley

Jeb S. Darby, Jr.

Col. W. Todd DeVan
Richard K. Eddy
Richard T. Edwards
Burton A. Farber

W. G. Faulk

William H. Flowers
Henry D. Foote, Jr.
L. M. Garrison

James I. Gillespie
John Griffiths, Jr.

Dr. Paul E. Holbrook
Gray Walton Hume, Jr.
Eben Jackson

C. R. Kaplan

H. Arthur Lamar
Claude LaVarre

R. G. Livengood
Charles J. Longacre
E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.
Simon M. Painter
Edmund B. Rannells, Jr.
Homer G. Ray, Jr.

M. Peel Rivers

Ira H. Samelson
Wallace Sheffield

Dr. Robert R. Smith
George L. Stout
Allen Dale Symonds
William F. Symonds
Carl B. Vickers
Luther Violett

John F. Watlington
Wallace Werble

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

William H. Wertz

 

J. B. Wharton
1934-L
Agent—Clarence S. Worrell
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 4 $90.00
1946 31 6 85.00

 

Thomas D. Anderson
Robert D. Bailey
Thornton G. Berry, Jr.
Layne H. Ford
Albert M. Fowler
Clarence S. Worrell

1934-A
Agent—Richard W. Grafton

 

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 11 28 $201.01
1946 12 30 263.51

 

Norwood E. Band
Dr. John D. Battle, Jr.
R. L. Buffington
William B. Carver
I. E. Dattel

Ruge P. DeVan
Walter J. Dixon

J. M. Friedman
Fred O. Funkhouser
Richard W. Grafton
Maury A. Jones
Walter C. Johnston
Jesse C. Leigh, Jr.
George D. McClure
Olin K. Miller
Foster M. Palmer
Francis L. Patton
Harvey. Pride
Charles A. Pritchard
Herbert Rudlin
William R. Schildknecht
Robert B. Shively
John F. Shroder
Joel S. Snyder
Daniel B. Startsman
Bernard Steinberg
Everett Tucker, Jr.
Victor F. Tucker
Joseph Walker, Jr.
Samuel A. Woolford

W. W. Fowlkes
Meredith Graham, Jr.
E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.
Thomas C. Smith
Thomas E. Sparks
William L. Wilson

 

1935-A
Agent—William Schuhle
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 10 23 $223.00
1946 13 30 268.50

 

Craig H. Berry

Angus M. Campbell
Robert F. Cooper, Jr.
Joseph A. Clemmer
W. P. Diggs

M. R. Dunaj

Dr. Joseph W. Fairlie
Norman §. Fitzhugh, Jr.
James M. Franklin
William B. Gabb
Loyal P. Gassman

Jay G. Henthorne

W. Wilson King

Dr. Sidney Lyons
Lewis W. Martin
Thomas W. Mehler
Robert R. Miller

Gus Morgan

Henry L. Ravenhorst
Harry M. Rhett, Jr.
William Schuhle, Jr.
George E. Short
Cnarles C. Smith

W. R. Sphar, Jr.

John D. Spohr
Frederick de R. Strong
Gilbert R. Swink, Jr.
Donald R. Wallis

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins
James S. Woods, Jr.

James Stuart Buxton
Robert Foster Corrigan
Richard H. Dietz

W. Magruder Drake
Dr. David J. Gilmore
Joseph J. Gugenheim
Joseph J. Harding
George W. Harrison
Arthur E. Hauck
Paul G. Hervey
Milton A. Honig
Kenneth P. Lane
Bruce N. Lanier
Walter T. Lawson, Jr.
A. R. Lofstrand, Jr.
Charles J. Mower
Kk. Angus Powell
James L,. Price, Jr.
Alfred Lee Reeser
James A. Robertson
William Rueger, III
Richard T. Scully
Charles A. Sweet, Jr.
Edward A. Turville
James M. White

1937-L

 

Agent—Edwin M. Marks

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
39 10 $88.00
54 14 117.50

1945
1946

 

 

1936-L
Agent—Hugh D. McNew
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 13 2 $15.00
1946 13 2 15.00

 

Samuel M. Greenwood, III
Hugh D. McNew

 

1935-L 1936-A
Agent—E. M. Nuckols, Jr. Agent—Kenneth P. Lane
Per cent Per cent
of Class Donors Amount of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 4 $25.50 1945 9 22 $190.00
1946 55 10 72.00 1946 12 29 250.85

 

Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr.
E. C. Clements

Edwin T. Coulburn
James D, Finley, II

Hugh J. Bonino

Harry Lee Bowman
Edward S. Boze, Jr.
Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr.

Joseph L. Arnold
James Pell Baker, Jr.
Wally Carlton Bernard
James A. Blalock
Amos A. Bolen
Stanley C. Higgins, Jr.
James A. McClure, Jr.
Edwin M. Marks
Harry T. Moreland
S. Tilford Payne, Jr.
George Pilcher, Jr.

I. M. Scott

Edward E. Stover

J. Addison Wagner

1937-A

Paul Fish

George F. Gilliland
Robert E. Graham
Charles K. Hauke
Norman Iler
Graham H. Johnson
Robert P. Kingsbury
Sidney Kirsch
Horace Z. Kramer
Victor R. La Volpe
Walter G. Lehr
George W. Lowry
Albert Lustbader
John M. McCardell
Harold C. Magoon
Jack Hiram Mason
C. Arnold Matthews
Robert M. Peek, Jr.
T. M. Plowden
Charles D. Price
Robert R. Radcliff
Albert A. Radcliffe
Lemar Rau

Edward G. Rawls
Maurice C. Rider
Howell W. Roberts
Parke S. Rouse, Jr.
John B. Sanford
Ben E. Schull

Dr. A. Erskine Sproul
Stedman Stowers
Charles J. Walker
Philip Weinsier

W. C. Wilbur, Jr.
Frank J. Williams, Jr.
Clark B. Winter
Alfred H. Wishnew

 

1938-L
Agent—Frank L. Price
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 22 7 $110.00
1946 22 7 ~ 52:50

 

 

Agent—Robert M. Peek, Jr.

Per cent
of Class Donors Amount

1945 12 32 $241.00
1946 19 49 517.00

Leonard Leigh
Samuel A. Martin
Fletcher F. Maynard
Waldo G. Miles
Frank L. Price
Edward C. Rankin
William L. Wilson, Jr.

1938-A

 

 

Lynne Morris Atmar
Ernest C. Barrett, Jr.

P. Duane Berry

Landon V. (Jimmy) Butler
Charles A. Butterworth, Jr.
Eugene G. Clayton

Frank D. Crew

Emerson Dickman, Jr.
Henry M. Drake

Jesse B. Douglass

Kenneth G. Dustin

William C. Dwiggins

[ 23 |

Agent—Charles R. Skinner

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 14 35 $318.74
1946 13 32 275.60

 

Arthur H. Alexander

Dr. T. Hart Baker
Grover H. Batten

C. Price Berryman
Charles P. Blackledge
Dr. Compton Broders, Jr.
Charles F. Clarke, Jr.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Herbert C. Clendening
Thomas Burke Cottingham
Gurley N. Cox

William H. Daniel
William H. Hillier
George S. Kemp, Jr.
Gerald M. Lively

Sam P. McChesney, Jr.
Alfred N. Mangino
Gilbert S. Meem

Paul M. Miller

A. Milton Morrison
John Edmonds Neill

T. C. L. Nugent, Jr.

John G. Ostertag

Harry M. Philpott
Alphonse J. Sherman
Charles R. Skinner
James H. Smith

Calvert Thomas

Robert C. Walker

Paul R. Whipp

Chester P. White

Robert Mitchell White, II
William E. Wiltshire, Jr.

1939-L

 

Agent—W. W. Perkins

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 8 3 $50.00
1946 18 7 30.00

 

W. Sidney Ammerman
John D. Goodin
Richard L. Howell
Joe C. Murphy

W. W. Perkins

Edgar Lewis Smith
Goulding W. Swift, Jr.

 

1939-A
Agent—Chas. H. Semple, Jr.
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 17 47 $528.00
1946 19 51 405.00

 

Arthur W. Archie, Jr.
W. Henry Baldock
Arthur E. Basile

Edgar A. Basse, Jr.
Alan Max Brombacher
Robert A. Brower

T. R. Bryant

T. W. Christopher
Thornton R. Cleek
Richard E. Clements, Jr.
Robert T. Crawford
Joseph S. Crowder
John J. Davis, Jr.

John Lillard Davis
Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr.
Harold L,. Fenton, Jr.
James W. Fishel
Sherwin B. French

F. P. Gaines, Jr.

Charles G. Gilmore
Charles L. Guthrie, Jr.
Frank M. Hankins
Waller C. Hardy, Jr.
Charles R. Hart
Oliver W. Hickel, Jr.
William Roy Hogan
Henry Ruffin Horne
Donald B. Houghton
Robert S. Hoyt

R. Palmer Ingram, Jr.
William A. Jenks
Christoph Keller, Jr.
James Gibson Lamb, Jr.
John R. LeBus
William L. Leopold
Dr. F. P. Maupai
John S. Mehler
Robert E. Milligan, Jr.
Thomas William Moses
Arthur E. Neilsen
Frank B. O’Connor
James C. Paera
Victor F. Radcliffe
Randolph D. Rouse
James A. Saltsman, Jr.
William King Self
Charles H. Semple, Jr.
Edgar W. Stuart
Maurice J. Swan, Jr.
S. Robert Weinsier
Philip K. Yonge

1940-L

Gilbert Gardner
Herbert K. Garges, Jr.
George M. Grasty
Paul W. Gregory, Jr.
James W. Hammett

T. Kennedy Helm, Jr.
Ross V. Hersey
George W. James, III
Homer D. Jones, Jr.
Alfred Charles Krieger, Jr.
Mervin H. Luria

Louis F. Plummer
Arthur Reno Porter, Jr.
P. A. Seaton, Jr.
Charles T. Sollenberger
Harry B. Stoddart
Samuel J. Sublette, Jr.
Alec N. Thomson, Jr.
Dr. Lewis M. Walker
John W. Watson

Hal B. Watterson
William E. Whaley, Jr.
Philip Williams, Jr.
James H. Willis
Ernest Woodward
Lattimer G. Young

1941-L

 

Agent—Pete S. Barrow
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 28 vy) $75.00
1946 36 12 95.00

 

Agent—John F. O’Connor
Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 29 6 $45.00
1946 14 4 30.00

 

Horace W. Bittenbender
O. B. McEwan

 

J. F. O’Connor
Stanford L. Schewel
1940-A

Agent—Gilbert Gardner

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 22 ' 53 $496.00
1946 17 41 301.00

 

Billy V. Ayers

Harry H. Benner
Richard W. Boisseau
Lea Booth

Thomas Ellison Bruce, Jr.
Donald G. Buck
William E. Buxton
William C. Church
Robert R. Davis
Robert A. Dementi
Homer D. Dickens, Jr.
H. G. Disbrow, Jr.
Theodore Donaldson
James S. Dudley, Jr.
Brent H. Farber, Jr.

Pete S. Barrow, Jr.
Frederick Bartenstein, Jr.
Frank C. Bedinger
Haskell T. Dickinson
Charles F. Heiner
Ralph E. Keehn
Charles M. Landrum
Louie A. Paterno
John E. Perry

Rufus H. Shumate

G. Murray Smith, Jr.
Allen T. Snyder

1941-A

Ernest V. Echols

Alvin T. Fleishman
Eduard F. Franze, Jr.
Jean S. Friedberg

W. L. Heartwell, Jr.
Richard M. Herndon
Charles L. Hobson
George B. Kerr

Fritz K. Kuntz

Ralph E. Lehr

Leland H. Lord

William A. Marsteller
Henry Thomas Martin, Jr.
Richard A. Mehler
Thomas G. Morris

James F. Norton

Robert C. Peery

Robert C. Petrey

Robert A. Rice

James B. Richardson, Jr.
Jack L. Reiter

Dr. Macey H. Rosenthal
H. Richard Sandstrom, Jr.
Bertram R. Schewel

W. L. Schultheis
William Curtis Soule
Donald L. Stein

Robert N. Sweeney
Donald C. Taggart

Ken B. Van de Water, Jr.
Carl L. Varner

Benton M. Wakefield
Claude M. Walker
Henry B. Wilder

Walter J. Wilkins, Jr.
Marvin S. Winter
Herbert M. Woodward, Jr.

 

1942-L
Agent—Robert C. Hobson
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 25 6 $60.00
1946 21 5 30.00

 

 

Agent—Paul D. Brown

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 24 64 $720.00
1946 19 52 426.50

John Lyle Campbell, Jr.
Robert C. Hobson
Jack Keith, Jr.
Edmund Schaefer, III
Oliver H. Ward

 

 

B. F. Ashcroft

John H. Beck
Bayard S. Berghaus
A. T. Bishop, Jr.
Robert S. Boyce*
Thomas W. Brockenbrough
Paul D. Brown
Francis C. Bryan
George Hunt Collins
Henry T. Crocker
George R. Day
Cameron Dean
John D. Durham

[ 24 ]

1942-A
Agent—Richard B. Spindle
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 23 68 $605.50
1946 27 77 653.00

 

E. C. Alevizatos

John M. Atwood

John Barrie, Jr.

William G. Barrows
Adrian L. Bendheim, Jr.
Edgar M. Boyd

Edward W. Brockman, Jr.
George M. Brooke, Jr.
Ned H. Brower

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Richard A. Brunn
Robert F. Campbell, Jr.
Stanley L. Carlsson
Samuel F. Ciener, Jr.
James Brent Clarke
Kenneth S. Clendaniel
Thomas M. Cox
Edward C. Crook
William J. Daniel
Walter G. Downie

R. Wallace Ebe, Jr.
Gustave A. Essig
Grady H. Forgy, Jr.

E. M. Fountain
Charlton Thomas Fuller
Robert D. Gage, III
John W. Garrow, Jr.
C. Tom Garten

Louis C. Greentree
Jackson A. Hauslein
EK. S. Hildebrand, Jr.
James S. Hill

Alex M. Hitz, Jr.

Dr. Sidney Isenberg
Horace H. Jeter

Gene Ray Johnston
George E. Kearns, Jr.
Michael W. Lau
Charles A. Lemkuhl, Jr.
Bernard Levin

Harold R. Levy

Daniel C. Lewis, Jr.
Kdward J. McCarty
Hugh N. McClure
Raymond D. McGill
John W. Menzies
Dougald M. Monroe, Jr.
Walter L. Monroe
Robert J. T. Mooney

Leonard M. Newcomb, Jr.

Lee D. Parker
Richard J. Payne, Jr.
William A. Phillips
Robert L. Pinck

John W. B. Preston, Jr.
Porcher G. Rembert

F. K. Rippetoe

Green Rives

Victor A. Roane
Robert W. Root
Robert S. Rosenfeld
Edmund A. Samara
Whitt N. Schultz
Richard T. Sloan
Richard B. Spindle, III
Ralph H. Stewart
Paul C. Thomas, Jr.
Richard H. Turner, III
Robert T. Vaughan
Robert Clark Walker
Raymond B. Whitaker
John Joe Wilkinson
George A. Woolfenden
James H. Woosley
Leon Worms, Jr.
Floyd K. Yeomans

Dr. Henry M. Yonge
Paul R. Zumkeller

1943

 

Agent—Albert D. Darby, Jr.
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 26 82 $894.50
1946 26 78 660.50

 

Lillard M. Ailor
Frederick M. Allen
William H. Armstrong
C. W. Barritt

Frank R. Bell, Jr.
James F. Berry
Calhoun Bond

J. Tyler Bowie
Richard J. Bromley
Walter R. Browder
Alfred E. Bruch

A. L. Cahn

Theodore R. Ciesla
Ralph I. Cohen
Adelbert B. Conley, Jr.
Jay D. Cook, Jr.
Richard E. Cooke
Albert D. Darby, Jr.
Joseph F. Ellis, Jr.
George R. Eshelman
Lawrence W. Galloway
Stanley R. Goldstein
Dr. Franklin Gruesser
Robert P. Haley

John Bruce Handy, Jr.
Hinman Brown Hawks
Hugh Robert Hughes
J. Morrison Hutcheson, Jr.
Conrad L. Inman, Jr.
Frank N. Jarvis

James S. Jefferson
Robert Francis Johnson
Gene I. Kaufman

S. L. Kopald, Jr.

Allie H. Lane

James G. LaPlante
Macon M. Long
Robert F. MacCachran
James E. McCausland
John W. McGehee, Jr.
William C. McGraw
Alexander M. Maish
Haven W. Mankin
Robert C. Mehorter
Fred T. Miller
Barton W. Morris, Jr.
Jack C. Murrell
Corneal B. Myers
Russell H. Neilson, Jr.
Morrison Ray Nelson
W. J. Noonan, Jr.
James Sidney Parsons
John N. Peeples
Charles L. Rast, Jr.
Donald L. Richardson
I. V. Runyan

Melvin H. Schept

Dr. Edward H. Scherr
Charles C. Schock

Dr. Marrion U. Scott

Philip A. Sellers
William Kearney Sevier
Dr. Richard H. Shepard
K. L. Shirk, Jr.

J. A. Silverstein
William G. Sizemore
Ernest E. Smith
Warren Moore Stuart
James Stanley Sutherland
Ralph S. Taggart
Arthur Thompson, Jr.
William B. Webb
James W. Wheater
William J. Wilcox, Jr.
Thomas C. Wilson, Jr.
Dr. Norman F. Wyatt
Neely Young

Kdwin A. Zelnicker, Jr.

 

1944
Agent—R. Bruce Quayle
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1945 21 53 $589.00
1946 13 28 268.50

 

Alvin D. Aisenberg
Ernest L. Becker
Robert O. Crockett, Jr.
Richard L,. Duchossois
John William Eck
Robert R. Giebel
William Bell Guthrie
Richard Harding
Alexander M. Harman, Jr.
Robert S. Irons

John R. Jeffrey

Joseph S. Keelty
Maurice I. Khourt
James C. Kidd

Carl J. McLeod
William R. Miller, ITI
Robert W. Milliron
Bertram J. Myers
Howard B. Peabody, Jr.
R. Bruce Quayle
Richard Rockwell
Charles Eugene Savedge
Henry H. Schewel
Lloyd H. Smith, Jr.
William B. VanBuren, III
Walter B. VanGelder
Alex H. Walker
Richard S$. Watson

1945

 

Agent—Alumni Office

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 13 31 $250.00
1946 8 16 145.00

William A. Davidson
William Robert Gaines
Robert T. Goldenberg
Russell W. Ingham
Robert E. Jackson
David L. Jones

Mathew E. O’Keefe
Willard F. Searle, Jr.
William W. Tatgenhorst, Jr.
Guy Edwin Yaste
Joseph M. Zamoiski, III

1946

 

Agent—Alumni Office

Per cent

of Class Donors Amount
1945 12 24 $180.00
1946 8 14 92.50

 

Roland E. Cote
Clarence N. Frierson
Ambrose W. Givens
Jack L. Grossman
Donald S. Hillman
John J. Kelly, ITI
David Lewis

Fred P. Loeffler

G. W. St. C. Moore
George C. Morris, Jr.
Robert F. Rougvie
John C. Short, Jr.
Charles M. Weeks
Howard C. Wilkins

1947

 

 

John Baxter Atkins, Jr.
Henry J. Blackford, Jr.
Harry F. Brown, Jr.
Robert E. Burriss, III
Paul R. Byrd

[25 ]

Agent—Alumni Office

Per cent
of Class Donors

1945 12 10
1946 7 5

Amount

$82.00
55.00

 

Robert S. Curl
Robinson C. Jones, III
C. L. Martin, Jr.
William Y. Smith
Eugene B. Wright, Jr.

 

1948
Agent—Alumni Office
Per cent
of Class Donors Amount
1946 2 $10.00

 

Herbert H. Hutcherson
David Graham Prior

Honorary Alumnus
Arthur G. Glasgow

Local Alumni Chapter

 

*Deceased

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENT

 

Years ended June 30th Bee 1945 1946 7 rot
OpERATING INcomE (Undesignated) :
Clase Agent Big |i ctijsnaas..:aioeactnne sinde-saat $23,857.96 $21,525.01 $21,973.55 $67 356.52
Moapsisiniegs iis... 05t tah assoc ae Beagles 75.50 75.50
‘Total Undesignated Income.................. $23,933.46 $21,525.01 $21,973.55 $67 ,432.02
DESIGNATED INCOME:
Alumni Intramural Field................................5 $ 1,681.83 $ 240.00 $ 25.00 $ 1,946.83
J. L. Howe Portrait..............csiccc eceeetessseeeeren 639.00 639.00
Se ateataes FC eNO Sig. nc) «oa ccideceneet ste ooenoe 25.00 25.00
Campus Picture Fund........ oe neem ee oe 1,700.00 139.62 1,839.62
Dee eS se ne eB oleate: reds 145.00 145.00
OReeae Pee EN ee iE coc gts. scan cb Paasahege bAeaes bias 0 unos 55.00 55.00
Total Designated Income.................... $ 2,345.83 $ 1,940.00 $ 364.62 $ 4,650.45
Total  Tesames |< 3.-.,.. ccnateietnets $26,279.29 $23,465.01 $22,338.17 $72,082.47
OPERATING E}XPENSES:

RN eo a ena vad te eke al $ 4,643.65 $ 6,390.04 $ 6,776.97 $17,810.66
Class Agent Fund Expense.....................- .... 2,446.63 1,304.38 1,311.60 5,062.61
Alumni Magazine..................::ccccsccesseeeeseeseees 3,375.45 1,950.04 2,622.61 7,948.10
RRM Sali case tay kein tbs abanp as nandeersinasesdon horde 330.25 1,010.00 1,340.25
Entertaining .............:.5.ccccssdsectsessssecasseeonaneeed 310.45 310.45
CET SUR iota hss scat ngns chose Sees Sant steed 496.01 252.70 678.76 1,427.47
PORES} i. ccrcerinth toa hadeenes. pie osynyeve 501.37 252.98 240.95 995.30
Telephone and Telegraph...........0......0..0005 261.91 106.24 122.60 490.75
Sourid Motion PIcture....c....-2.::i.eceeccconesesesncnorveas 875.00 875.00
Luncheon and Other Activities—Finals.......... 750.00 750.00
Mitacellarieeeee 2 ooo io ales salvos an ceep eet aden Somes 332.77 81.64 117.12 531.53

Total Operating Expenses.................... $12,057.79 $10,668.27 $14,816.06 $37,542.12

Excess of Income over Expenses........ 14,221.50 12,796.74 7,522.11 34,540.35

aia ee Se So eon ek eae $26,279.29 $23,465.01 $22,338.17 $72,082.47

STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ‘TREASURER:

Alumni Intramural Field....................::::e $ 1,681.83 $ 240.00 S 20a $ 1,946.83
J. L. Howe Portrait................:ccecceeeeeeeeeen 639.00 | 639.00
BemebeDateeh 1 NCE WANE ice cc adcctatee sakes nttensgee bs 25.00 25.00
Campus Picture Fund..............0:cceceeeeeee 1,700.00 139.62 1,839.62
MEN Vy eT re it nbd cgeac dateveestadontatogsh ceed 145.00 145.00
OOP aR RIN a... seavesacnaphechbedoednsnSAnnivieliaar svi 55.00 55.00
For Payment of Association’s Operating Ex-

SIMD sii ET ARTE cn soe aan ny so oane snes eae 12,057.79 10,668.27 14,816.06 37,542.12

Undesignated ......2.....ccscccsesescsseseseseteenenesensneneens 11,875.67 10,856.74 7,157.49 29,889.90

Total: ‘T vatiatens... iia kee $26,279.29 $23,465.01 $22,338.17 $72,082.47

*None of Alumni Secretary’s salary included in 1943 and 1944; his salary for ten months included in 1945 and
for the entire year included in 1946.

Casu BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1946—ReEvotvine Funp (Advanced by University Treasurer for current office
SmBCO ) 5 .-ipcalipundisecestebeonacgécoauthhnnseateccergnscihpasprnnn iQendeetcpinscaehnasbesrepaunnmntrabmmagsenmaysameennsssnadretoesehen manne $ 800.00
CasH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1946—PLATE ee Ee a Oe nti eeearedgtdentoniganit ash etodrenmnans 796.09

eS EOE —_ - .

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1888

on the retired list as of Au-

 

Capt. Greenlee D. Letcher,
never failing in his loyalty
and helpfulness to Wash-
ington and Lee, was the first
alumnus to respond in the
1946 Alumni Fund.

W. J. Humphreys, after
many years with the United
States Weather Bureau, is
still much interested in mat-
ters intellectual, especially
those of a scientific nature,

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
_last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters
to your Class Agent this year.

gust 1, 1943, with the rank of
Admiral (four stars). He
completed fifty years service
in the Navy on May 20, 1946;
serving through World War
Il as Inspector General of
the Navy. Home address:
1870 Wyoming Avenue,
N. W., Washington, D.C.
Dr. J. A. McClure, class
agent for 1899, retired from
the active pastorate on June

 

 

stimulated by daily associa-

tion with members of the Cosmos Club in Washington, D. C.
He has written many scientific articles and books, and—his
recollections to date, “in which Washington and Lee Univer-
sity furnishes many that often and lingeringly are recalled.”
Address: Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

1890

A. K. Bowles has been connected with the Consolidated
Coal Company for fifty years. His address has recently been
changed from Rockefeller Plaza, New York, to 2000 Koppers
suilding, Pittsburgh 19, Pennsylvania.

H. M. Heuser, Commonwealth’s Attorney for Wythe
County, Virginia, has held this office for many years. He has
published many pamphlets about local history. His home is
in Wytheville, Virginia.

1897

Dr. Leroy C. Barret was a visitor to Lexington during the
past summer. He is still teaching in Trinity College, Hart-
ford, Connecticut.

1898

James J. Faulkner, General Counsel of Armour & Com-
pany, retired from active duty at the close of the fiscal year,
November 2, 1946, after 41 years of service and 29 years as
General Counsel. He recently received the honorary degree
of Doctor of Laws from Washington and Lee.
He plans to remain in Chicago for several
months before reopening his ancestral home, MN
“Boydville,” at Martinsburg, West Virginia. |

Colonel Warren W. Whiteside, Redmount
Station, Front Royal, Virginia, has two girls ha

> /

. . 4 NY
and a boy; one girl married to an army colonel ‘th
and the other to a naval captain, and the boy ‘ i -
° . ° e hs
is a captain in the navy. So at the annual —- |
Army-Navy football game they have a house cece tare LN

. ae a . . — "

divided against itself. ==

W. Ross McCain recently received the
honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the
University of Arkansas. He is President of
the Aetna Fire Insurance Company, Hartford,
Connecticut. =

1899
Admiral Charles Philip Snyder was placed

Wt On)

Way
ey GY
ul

      

| ye Say) 4
uA — Ai
a

ee van TE P

14, 1946. He has been pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church, St. Petersburg, Florida. His
son, Tom McClure, B.S. ’41, now out of the service, is back as
a student in the Law School at Washington and Lee.

1900

J. E. Gish has lived in Roanoke, Virginia, since receiving
his LL.B. from Washington and Lee. He has now retired
from the practice of law, having received a severe injury to
his shoulder in 1944. Home address: 1209 Center Hill Drive,
Roanoke, Virginia.

1903

Robert T. Wallace is minister of the Monticello Presby-
terian Church, Monticello, Florida. Reports a very success-
ful evangelistic service in his church.

Clement Boaz, manager of W. J. Boaz Estate, Fort Worth,
Texas, is proud of having three grandchildren, two boys and
one girl. He and his wife, who was Lucilla Booker of Lex-
ington and Hampden Sydney, get back to Virginia for sum-
mer visits.

D. V. Guthrie is teaching in the department of physics,
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. His son,
David V., Jr., graduated in June and is now back in school
taking graduate work.

1904

Dr. John Henry Day, Class Agent for 1904, is minister of
the Seventh Baptist Church, North Avenue
and St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

1905

Judge Walter G. Riddick, Class Agent for
1905, is Judge of the Eighteenth Judicial Cir-
cuit, Little Rock, Arkansas. He received the
degree of LL.D. from Washington and Lee in
1944, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in
1940.

1906

Milton Herman lives at 500 Hawthorne
Drive, Danville, Virginia. He served in World
War I with Captain Greenlee Letcher’s re-
vived Rockbridge Artillery, which afterwards
became a part of the 111th Field Artillery. He
says he was an onlooker in World War II. In
the last few years he has become interested in

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

gardening and says he has had quite satisfactory results for
one who started as an ignoramus.

1907

G. W. Keller is engaged in the natural gas field of West
Virginia and Kentucky, serving as General Manager and part
owner of the Huntington-Oklahoma Oil Company and the
Midway City Gas Company. Their pipeline passes through
Lexington, Virginia, so, he says: “In a very small way, we
sometimes contribute to the fuel supply which cooks the
waffles for the boys attending Washington and Lee.” Address:
First National Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

W. R. J. Dunn, is Vice-President and General Manager
of Dunn Construction Company, Birmingham, Alabama. Both
of his sons, W. R. J., Jr., 40, and Claude Cobbs, ’41 have re-
turned safely from service.

Vincent M. Miles, Class Agent for 1907, was in Lexing-
ton in October and attended the Hampden-Sydney game.

1908

George B. Brandon says he is unmarried and therefore has
no family fights, no domestic troubles, and lives at the South-
land Hotel, Dallas, Texas.

Rev. G. C. Gabriel, after serving for seven years as a
District Superintendent of the Central Pennsylvania Con-
ference of the Evangelical Church, has accepted the position
of General Superintendent of the Evangelical Home located
at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. This is one of the benevolent
institutions of the Evangelical Church and includes a depart-
ment for the aged, a department for orphans, cottages for re-
tired ministers, and a farm of about 175 acres. His wife is
matron of the department for the aged.

1909

Harvey Allen is Assistant Freight Traffic Manager, Mis-
souri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company of Texas, Dallas 2,
Texas. He has worked for this railroad since 1907.

L. C. Caldwell, after receiving his A.B. degree at Wash-
ington and Lee, taught in McGuire’s School for three years
and then returned to the Law School here. He began the prac-
tice of law with the late James H. Price, a graduate of the W.
and L. Law School and later Governor of Virginia. He is now
Supervisor of Industrial Taxes of the State Department of
Taxation of Virginia.

Charles S. Glasgow, attorney, Lexington, Virginia, now
has two sons at Washington and Lee, Charles S., Jr., re-
cently discharged from the Navy, and resuming his studies
here, and Francis, in the freshman class.

Dr. John W. Claudy is Superintendent of the Rockview
Farm Prison, Western State Penitentiary, Bellefonte, Penn-
sylvania. He writes that they are going to begin work on two
institutions at Rockview: one for Defective Delinquents and
one Reformatory for normal boys. They will be located on
the reservation, which consists of about eight thousand acres.
It will be a venture in the field of Penology—combining
three institutions of three different types under one adminis-
tration.

1910

Rev. James N. Montgomery has returned to his work as
Missionary of the Presbyterian Church in Hwainfu, W.

Kiangsu, China. He returned to this country on the Grips-
holm after Pearl Harbor, and has been serving as Field Su-
perintendent of Home missions, New Orleans Presbytery.
Permanent forwarding address: P. O. Box 330, Nashville,
Tennessee.

Wilber L. Tilden, class agent for Law ’10, has retired
from the practice of law after thirty-five years and is in the
citrus fruit business, Tilden-McKinnon Groves, office 801
Florida Bank Building, Orlando, Florida.

James B. Denny is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia,
with offices in the Dickson Building. His two sons are out
of the Navy, having been there for more than four years.

Hugh Hawthorne, Number One Broadway, New York,
New York, is Vice-President Pocahontas Fuel Company and
Vice-President and Director of affiliated companies, Poca-
hontas Steamship Company, The Pocahontas Corporation,
Pulaski Iron Company, and Pocahontas Light and Water
Company.

R. Palmer Ingram has been practicing law in Baltimore,
Maryland, for the past twenty years. He is a member of the
firm of Ingram and Brown, 16 St. Paul Street. His law part-
ner is Helen Elizabeth Brown. They practice before the
United States Supreme Court, United States Court of Claims,
all Federal Departments. State and Federal Courts of Mary-
land, Virginia, and District of Columbia.

Crover C. Worrell is practicing law in Mullens, West Vir-
ginia. His son is now out of the service and happily reunited
with his wife and daughter.

1911

W. Kendall Lemley is Judge of the Municipal Court of
Hope, Arkansas and engaged in farming and stock raising.
He is Vice-President of the First National Bank of Hope.

J. P. Barclay is Manager of the Midwest Zone for The
Pure Oil Company, Pure Oil Building, 35 East Wacker Drive,
Chicago, Illinois.

1912

Dr. G. F. Ordeman has recently been promoted to super-
intendent of the light oils division of Standard Oil Company
(Indiana). Dr. Ordeman became associated with Standard in
1919 as a chemist at Whiting. After serving as assistant
superintendent of the asphalt and acid department he en-
tered the light oils division where he was successfully head
of the finishing, crude still, and pressure still departments
and superintendent of the light oils division. He was pro-
moted to assistant general superintendent of the refinery in
1943. He received his B.S. degree in chemistry at Washing-
ton and Lee and later B. S. in Mining and Ph.D. from Johns
Hopkins. He was Assistant Professor in the Chemistry De-
partment at Washington and Lee in 1918.

J. Frank Key, Class Agent for 1912, is President of the
Columbian Paper Company, Buena Vista, Virginia.

Dr. Freeman H. Hart, until recently National Secretary
of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, is now Professor in the
Humanities at the University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.
The Humanities tend to be a study of literature, art, music
and philosophy, and are all tied together directly and in-
directly through history and historical sequences. Address:
1851 North Eighth Street, Gainesville, Florida.

J. Blackburn Watts is a member of the law firm of Watts,

[ 28 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Poffenbarger & Bowles, Chamber of Commerce Building,
Charleston, West Virginia. His son, Matthew, is a student in
the Law School at Washington and Lee.

1913

Philip P. Gibson, member of the law firm of Marcum and
Gibson, First Huntington National Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, would like to have a reunion of his
class at the Bicentennial celebration n 1949,

C. C. (Red) Moore, class agent for 1913-A was a visitor
to the campus in October. He and his wife witnessed the
first game of the football season at Washington and Lee.

Bland Terry, President of Bland Terry Shoe Company,
Atlanta, Georgia, is a frequent visitor to the campus, where
he has many friends. His son, Bland, Jr., is now a student at
Washington and Lee.

S. L. Fellers is Judge of the Court of Law and Chancery,
Roanoke, Virginia. His son, Stanford, Jr., is now a student
at Washington and Lee.

1914

William T. Lovins is Judge of the Supreme Court of West
Virginia. He has a son who is now a junior in high school,
and hopes he will be a student at Washington and Lee.

Stephen F. Chadwick is a member of the law firm of Chad-
wick, Chadwick and Mills, Suite 656 Central Building, Seattle
4, Washington.

Kennon C. Whittle is Judge of the Seventh Judicial Cir-
cuit, Martinsville, Virginia.

1915

Summerfield McCarteney who is an editor with the For-
eign Broadcast Information Service of the Central Intelli-
gence Group, returned late in the summer from a vacation in
Cuba where he was the guest of Arturo Urgelles and Senor
de Urgelles in Havana. He was also entertained by Jose
Caminero, well known economic and political columnist and
radio broadcaster in Havana, who was his classmate at Wash-
ington and Lee. He has two sons both of whom were in ser-
vice during the war. Home: 211 North Greenbriar Street,
Arlington, Virginia.

Carl S. Davidson is a civil engineer at 25 East Philadelphia
Street, York, Pennsylvania. For the past four years he has
been living on a ninety-three acre farm about eight miles
from York. His two sons are now out of the service.

James E. Bear is head of the Biblical Department of Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. In addition to
his teaching duties, he is Registrar of the Seminary. He has
two daughters in college and two younger children, Jimmy,
age 8, and Jean, age 5.

Paul C. Thomas lives at Happy Valley Farm, R. F. D. 1,
Box 405, Bluefield, West Virginia. His son, Paul, Jr., ac-
companied by his wife and young son, returned to Washing-
ton and Lee in February, after being discharged from the
Navy, and received his A.B. degree in June, 1946.

Taylor H. Stukes is Judge of the Supreme Court of South
Carolina.

Charlie Lile, still with the Koppers Company, Inc., in
Pittsburgh, has recently bought and moved into a new home.
Address :918 Hastings Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

1916

Judge Floyd Eaton Kellam is Judge of the Twenty-Eighth
Judicial Circuit of Virginia. His home is at Princess Anne,
Virginia.

Sam P. Kohen is Director of Claims Service, in Branch
Number 10, Veterans Administration, Dallas, Texas. He
says that he still feels that the fine training he received dur-
ing his student days at Washington and Lee has contributed
in a most important manner to the progress he has made in
his chosen work with the Veterans Administration.

David A. Falk is operating a department store, O. Falk’s,
in Tampa, Florida. He has been much interested in welfare
work in the State of Florida, having served on every Welfare
Board since the movement was started in the state.

A. L. Bennett, Class Agent for 1916-A, is Superintendent
of the Virginia Conference Orphanage, 3900 West Broad
Street, Richmond 21, Virginia.

1917

Harold T. Hagen owns and operates a chain of restaurants
known as Pig’n Whistle Sandwich Shops, Inc., Atlanta,
Georgia.

Robert S. Clary is the publisher of “Your Newspaper,”
4551 Griffin Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Last year he
published a book “71 Ways to Build Up Your Newspaper”
which is now being used by leading newspapers of every state
in the U.S. A., of every province in Canada, in twenty-two
different nations on all six continents of the world.

Gabriel de la Haba is a member of the law firm of Damian
Monserrat, Jr., and Gabriel de la Haba, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

1918

Fulton W. Hoge, Class Agent for 1918, is a member of the
law firm of Williamson, Hoge and Curry, 810 Title Insurance
Building, 433 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13, California.

Francis H. Styles is with the American Consulate, Tam-
pico, Mexico.

James Lewis Howe, Jr., is with the Arthur H. Thomas
Company, Technical Service. Home address: 51 West Wal-
nut Avenue, Merchantville, New Jersey.

E. V. Bowyer has been associated with the Roanoke Gas
Company, Roanoke, Virginia for approximately 12 years
as Sales Manager. He is married and has a son 15 years old.

1919

Clifford Peale is now in charge of the Chicago Office of
the Fostoria Pressed Steel Corporation, which company man-
ufactures industrial lighting equipment and Intra-Red ovens.
He is living at 1260 North Dearborn Parkway, Chicago 10,
Illinois.

Alexander M. Walker, 1005 Remington Road, Penfield
Downs, Philadelphia 31, Pennsylvania, writes that his son,
Alex, B.S. 44, is out of the service and has entered the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, for graduate study in organic chem-
istry.

W. Roy Campbell is with the Hans Watts Realty Com-
pany, 414 Eleventh Street, Huntington, West Virginia. His
oldest boy has just finished Junior High.

[ 29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1920

Fadjo Cravens is Congressman from the Fourth Arkan-
sas District and a member of the Judiciary Committee. His
home is in Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Fred D. Townsend is practicing law, with offices in the
Central Union Building, Columbia, South Carolina. His son,
William H., is now a student here.

Robert W. Lowe is still in the coal mining engineering
business in Rochester, Illinois. On the side he is working
with the Boy Scouts and other civic organizations.

George S. Mueller, in addition to his work with Bell Lab-
oratories, finds himself involved in many civic enterprises in
connection with his residence at 51 Quaker Ridge Road,
Manhasset, Long Island, New York.

1921

Dr. Daniel Blain is chief psychiatric of the Veterans Ad-
ministration, Washington, D. C. Address: 1326 Woodley
Avenue, Washington, D. C.

J. R. Stuart after leaving Washington and Lee, studied
Mechanical Engineering at Cornell University and received
an M.E. degree in 1924. After serving as Plant Manager and
Superintendent in various manufacturing plants, he now has
his own business, The Somerset Canning Corporation, Som-
erset, Pennsylvania.

F. A. Henry has been in the insurance business for the
past twenty-five years and is now a member of the firm of
Hicks, Brady and Henry, General Agents, 202-205 Chamber
of Commerce Building, Nashville, Tennessee.

Harry B. Burt is president of Malt-a-Plenty, Inc., “Amer-
ica’s Finest Dairy Drink,” 1635 East 11th, Tulsa 5, Oklahoma.

William Henry Connelly of Lawrenceville, Virginia, has
been named by Governor Tuck to the Virginia Commission
for the Blind to succeed the late C. C. Hume, whose term
would have expired June 30, 1952. Connelly attended the
College of William and Mary and while he was a student there
was totally blinded in a hunting accident. He later attended
Randolph-Macon College and in 1921 was graduated from
the Washington and Lee Law School. Since then he has been
an attorney at Lawrenceville where he is also referee in bank-
ruptcy for the United States district court, eastern district
of Virginia.

1922

William Francis McCann is still associated with the New
York Central Railroad Company, as he has been since 1922.
Address: 413 Northview Avenue, New Castle, Pennsylvania.

Benjamin J. Broach, after leaving school, joined the Amer-
ican Foreign Insurance Association. Had foreign appoint-
ments with this company in Athens, Greece and Cairo, Egypt.
Address: 601 Sweet Building, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

Dewey A. Reynolds, chemist with the United States
Bureau of Mines, lives at 2683 Voelkel Avenue, South Hills
Station, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Byron Browder, now discharged from the Army Air Corps,
is back in Chattanooga, Tennessee, with Standard Oil Com-
pany of New Jersey.

L. W. Milbourne says he is just a busy bachelor running
a radio station, which is a handful these days. He is with the

Monumental Radio Company, WCAO, 811 West Lanvale
Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

R. Bleakley James, Class Agent for 1922-L, is a frequent
visitor to the campus since his son is now a student at the
University.

1923

R. Maurice Frew, who has had many years of experience
in personnel and labor relations work, became personnel
manager of the Columbia division of Pacific Mills, manufac-
turers of textiles, Columbia, South Carolina, on January 1,
1947. While at Washington and Lee he was an outstanding
athlete. He is a former president of the Southern Officials
associations and is an active football official.

John D. T. Bold has recently changed his address to 308
Poplar Drive, Falls Church, Virginia.

Judge G. Peabody Howard is Chancellor, Third Chancery
Division, State of Tennessee.

Cyrus W. Hall is Judge of the Intermediate Court of Ka-
nawha County, Charleston, West Virginia. His oldest daugh-
ter is a student at Stuart Hall, Staunton, Virginia.

Fred E. Pass is with Fred A. Ginsburg and Company, In-
surance, Detroit, Michigan. He has a daughter who will be
entering Randolph-Macon in a couple of years.

1924
(Notes by Class Agent, Wyatt French)

Frank Switzer, 122 South Main Street, Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia, was the first man to send a letter to your class agent.
He operates the telephone company in Harrisonburg. He was
in the Army more than five years, and reports having seen
Jimmie Huff in Paris.

E. Almer Ames, Jr., is Commonwealth’s Attorney for Ac-
comac County. His office is at Onancock, Virginia.

James Frost Riley, Jr., 242 Plaza Circle, Palm Beach,
Florida, did not write a letter, but the envelope in which he
sent his contribution indicates that he is connected with
Bessemer Properties, Inc., Phipps Plaza, Palm Beach.

Norfleet Turner is President of the First National Bank
of Memphis. Residence: Shady Grove Road, Memphis, Ten-
nessee. Some nineteen years ago he married Elinor Ragland.
They have a seventeen year old son at Choate School, and a
daughter at Miss Hutchinson’s School in Memphis.

Ed Gibson is in the automobile business (Gibson Motors,
217 Park Avenue, East, Mansfield, Ohio). Married twenty
years ago, and has a daughter at Stephens College. Says he
weighs more than when we last saw him; and does not like
OPA.

Henry W. Jones has his office in the First National Bank
3uilding, Memphis, Tennessee (Cathey-Williford-Jones Co.).
He operates two lumber mills in Mississippi. He married Dor-
othy Terrell in 1928. Henry J., will be ready for W. and L,. in
two years, while Terrell, aged 5, will have to wait a few
years before he can matriculate.

Charles S. Stone, operates Stoneville Grocery Company,
Stoneville, North Carolina. However, he carries on a few side-
line activities; a picture show, a five-tenant farm, and, during
tobacco season, buys for R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

| 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Vickers Watts can be found at the Hans Watts Realty
Company, 414 Eleventh Street, Huntington, West Virginia.
While he was in the Army as a Captain, he was given com-
mand of a Prisoner of War camp at Shreveport, Louisiana.
Last October he married Lou V. Colon, of Shreveport.

Francis Plowman is Vice-President of Scott Paper Co.,
Chester Pennsylvania (Scott-Tissue, Scott-Towels). Francis
has two daughters. He reports that Philadelphia has a very
active alumni group. Francis also reports that he travels a
lot and may drop in to see any of us, anytime. Francis, we
will take that as a promise. We will be looking for you.

By the way, who can tell us where to locate William Earl
Anthony, last known address: Columbus, Georgia.

Johnny Guerrant, wholesale paper executive, was your
class agent last year and did a remarkable job. This year, he
is resting on his laurels and wouldn’t even write us a letter,
although his usual prompt contribution was received with
pleasure. Johnny, like most Richmonders, enjoys life great-
ly. He takes a great deal of pride in his lovely Frances, and
his delightful sub-deb daughter, Kitty.

Dr. Joe McMath was in the Navy 3% years, and is now
practicing at 505 Wyoming Avenue, Lockland, Cincinnati 15,
Ohio. Joe didn’t tell us whether he still retains all of his
curly hair. In fact, the only personal information available is
that he has two daughters.

John Hendon sent the outstanding letter, because it con-
tained personal information in which we are all interested, and
also contained a storehouse of information for the Alumni
Office. John owns Hendon’s Parking and Service Stations,
1631 Third Avenue, North Birmingham, Alabama. Howard
Leake is the General Manager of the organization. Johnny
was in the Navy three years, and Howard ran the business
while Johnny was away. John was in charge of a Ground
Training School for naval aviation cadets. He reports he has
gained forty pounds. His fine letter exhibits an active in-
terest in everything and everybody pertaining to Washing-
ton and Lee.

1925

Joe Holt has been with RCA for four years, and has been
attached to the New York office of the Law Department
since July, 1945. He has two sons who are ten and eight re-
spectively and thinks, from the way they are growing, they
will soon be ready for Washington and Lee. Address: RCA
Law Department, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York.

Frank Bowers is vice-president, treasurer and general
manager, of Drexel Knitting Mills Company, making men’s
socks, at the rate of 2500 dozen pairs per day, and are in-
stalling new equipment which will double their production.
His home is in Morganton, North Carolina.

Bruce F. Gannaway, after five years on the receiving end
for class communications, now writes a letter to his class
agent. He has recently completed six years as pastor of the
Hendricks Methodist Church, Jacksonville, Florida. He fishes
and plays golf for recreation. He has a son five years old and
a daughter three.

E. W. (Eb) Brown has recently moved to Indiana, Penn-
sylvania, where he is in the office of the Deputy Collector of
Revenue. Address: Box 654, Indiana, Pennsylvania.

C. Walton Rex is President of the Rex-McGill Invest-
ment Company, Inc., 128 North Orange Avenue, Orlando,
Florida. He has a son seventeen years old and hopes he can

come to Washington and Lee when he graduates from Se-
wanee this year.

George S. Wilson, Jr., Class Agent for ’25-Law, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Wilson and Wilson, Owensboro, Ken-
tucky. His brother William L. Wilson, LL.B. ’35 is also a
member of this firm.

1926

Robert Chester Smith, Special Assistant to the Secretary
of Labor and Director of Personnel of that Department, re-
signed that position on April 1, 1946, to become Industrial
Relations Consultant for the Pullman Standard Car Manu-
facturing Company in Chicago. Business address: 79 East
Adam Street, Chicago, Illinois.

(Notes by Class Agent, Carl B. Knight)

Dr. Charles W. Lowry, rector of All Saints’ church, Chevy
Chase, Maryland, has published a small book entitled “The
Trinity and the Christian Devotion.” Eyre and Pottiswoode
were publishers in England and Harper and Brothers in
this country. “I was asked to write it by the late Archbishop
William Temple and was the joint Lenten Book of the Arch-
bishop of Cantebury and the presiding bishop of the Amer-
ican Episcopal church.

Thomas P. Foley is operating the Consumer Credit de-
partment of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company in
Richmond, Virginia.

M. H. MacBryde, Jr., is practicing law in Martinsville,
Virginia. “I am a moderately successful country lawyer and
am able to hold my own against the graduates of the Univer-
sity of Richmond and University of Virginia; and I am told
by my associates that I gripe as much as I did twenty years
ago.”

Rufus A. Fulton is president of the R. A. Fulton and Com-
pany, 919 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with
branches in Baltimore and Pittsburgh, and is a wholesale
distributor of floor covering. “I started this business,” he
writes “after nineteen and one-half years with the Armstrong
Cork Company. My family consists of my wife, Eunice; a
daughter, little Eunice and a son, Rufus A. Jr.”

E. W. MacCorkle, Jr. is assistant manager of gas sales of
the Air Reduction Company with offices at 60 East 42nd
Street,, New York, New York. “VJ Day found me in a nice
comfortable responsible job as staff maintenance officer of
the U.S. Naval Operating Base, Leyete Gulf, Philippine
Islands,” he writes, “but in a week I was enroute to the USA
and am now a civilian, first class.” He lives at 83 Bellewood
Avenue, Dobbs Ferry, New York, with his wife and Emmett,
Il (age 4).

J. R. Thames, Jr., is in the lumber business with J. R.
Thames and Company in Birmingham, Alabama. He re-
ports: “just back from my honeymoon.”

Juan Navarro is in the real estate business in Panama
City, Panama. “If you know of any of the W. and L. Alumni
of the classes of ’24, ’25, or ’26 who may be coming to Panama
please give them my address as I would like very much to
see them and help them while here,” he writes. His address
is Postoffice Box 956. He adds he is enjoying a nice income
from over a million dollars worth of properties which he has
accumulated since leaving Washington and Lee.

Nelson Burriss is with Eastman in Kingsport, Tennessee,
and lives at Hillrise, Johnson City, Tennessee.

[31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John B. Funk is a member of the Senate of Maryland and
lives in Brunswick. He is married and has three children.
After leaving W. and L. he was an engineer for the American
Bridge Company until 1929 when he opened an engineering
and contracting business in Brunswick. He was elected to
the Maryland House of Delegates in 1934 and to the Senate
in 1938. He was a candidate for Comptroller of Maryland
in June, last year.

1927

Andrew Gessner Briggs, Jr., has been the owner of Briggs
Store for Men in Richmond, Virginia since 1933, and has many
church and civic interests. He and his wife are building a new
home. They have two children, a boy 15, and a girl 12.

Guidon C. Olson is President of the Nackie Paper Com-
pany, 405 South Sixth Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He has
been in Milwaukee about five years after having spent four-
teen years in the paper business in Chicago.

Luther H. Redcay is Executive Director of the Snyder
County Board of Assistance in Pennsylvania’s unified public
assistance program. He is married and has two daughters.
Address: Isle of Que, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania.

Leigh D. Bulluck has been with the Hanes Hosiery, Inc.,
for the past fifteen years. His offices are in the Empire State
Building, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York.

George Summerson has been in the hotel business for the
past eighteen years, operating in North Carolina until 1937
when he came to Bristol, Virginia, as manager of the Hotel
General Shelby. He and his wife have three children, two
girls and a boy.

Preston Moore after service with the Navy, spending
eighteen months in London, attached to Admiral Stark’s
Headquarters, is now back in his old position as assistant pro-
fessor at The Citadel, Charleston, South Carolina.

Dr. Herbert Virgin, Jr., is an Orthopedic surgeon in Mi-
ami, Florida. He is consulting Orthopedic Surgeon for Pan
American World Airways, Miami Shipbuilding, Merrill-Stev-
ens, one or two railroads and so on, Chief of the Orthopedic
section of St. Francis Hospital. He married Frances True,
who is a graduate of Smith College. They live in Coconut
Grove and have three children. Address: Huntington Build-
ing, Miami, Florida.

John DeWeese Carter has been in service for the past
three and a half years with the Judge Advocate General De-
partment and in March, 1946, was in the Philippine Islands.
Address: Carter Building, Denton, Maryland.

Leslie Storey Stemmons is Vice-President of Industrial
Properties Corporation, 401 Republic Bank Building, Dallas
1, Texas, in which he and his brother John are associated.
They are now engaged in the planning and development of
the “Trinity Industrial District,” a modern industrial develop-
ment of some thousand acres in Dallas. He was married in
1939 to Grace Crampton Lewis of Dallas.

1928

Colonel Herbert H. Butler is with the Veterans Admin-
istration in Chicago. His home address is 1605 Oakcrest
Drive, Alexandria, Virginia.

(Notes by Class Agent, T. B. Bryant)

John Lancaster wrote me some years ago, when I had the
honor to serve as your Class Agent, that he was struggling

hard to make a living and was glad to report that some months
he almost made it. Information comes to me that he has de-
veloped into one of the outstanding young trial lawyers of
the great Lone Star State and it is my sincere hope that
henceforth his lean months will be scarce.

Harold Osterman, who holds the purse strings for Markel
Insurance Company, came to Orangeburg last year and while
here tried to talk settlement of some cases I had in which
his company was interested. However, while he was here he
went over to the Court House and sat with me while I de-
fended a colored man for murder. The colored man was con-
victed and after Osterman sized up my courtroom ability he
withdrew his offer of settlement and left for a fishing trip.

Sometime ago I had the pleasure of seeing Buck Jordan in
Richmond. Buck is now Vice-President, Title Officer and just
about owns the Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation in
Richmond. An insurance man told me that Buck was recog-
nized as the outstanding authority on real estate law in the
South. “Skinny” Williams did a good job on him and I re-
egret I was unable to take it in like Buck.

I have recently learned that Rhydon Latham is out of the
Navy and back in Jacksonville and will probably be the next
mayor. When that comes about I am going to see His Honor
the Mayor.

Some time ago I got off at an airport in Louisville and had
a short visit with George Clark—he is known in Louisville as
Oldham— who at that time was Assistant U.S. District At-
torney. I guess by this time he is a Federal Judge and I want
him to write and tell me all about it.

Reese Stipes is doing exceptionally well in Flint, Michi-
ean. I do not know whether he represents labor or capital,
but in any event, my information is that he should be “in the
chips.”

Your humble servant is happy to report that he still has
one wife, two boys (which constitutes a house full of chil-
dren), no dogs, no fishing tackle, and very little money since

March 15.
1929

Sam J. Thompson is the Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Campbell County, Virginia. He is married and has four chil-
dren, three boys and a girl. His home is in Rustburg, Virginia.

Frank T. Parker is now out of the Navy and back at his
home “Forest Lodge,” Charlottesville, Virginia. He has many
and varied interests, among them, farming and apple-raising.

1930

W. T. Alsop, now out of the service, is Vice-President of
Pillans and Smith Company, wholesale grocers, Ocala, Fla.

F. L. Shipman, after service in the Navy for over two
years, is now discharged and back in the practice of law in
the firm of Shipman and Shipman, 320 West Main Street,
Troy, Ohio. He has a son who will be ready for Washington
and Lee in a few years.

Howerton Gowen is in the chemical business in Roanoke
Rapids, North Carolina—Howerton Gowen Company, In-
dustrial Agricultural Chemicals.

Julian H. Black is with the 7-Up Bottling Company, P. O.
Box 505, Staunton, Virginia. He was released from the Navy
in December 1945, with the rank of Commander. He an-
nounces the birth of a son on December 8, 1946.

[ 32 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Kenneth L. Keil, Class Agent for 1930-A, is District Man-
ager, The Frederick A. Schnell Agency of Penn Mutual. Ad-
dress: 909 Myers Building, Springfield, Illinois.

Edward Graves is practicing law in Lynchburg, Virginia,
with the firm of Edmunds, Whitehead, Baldwin and Graves,
with offices in the Krise Building.

Dr. John P. Lynch is with the McGuire Clinic, St. Lukes
Hospital, Richmond 20, Virginia.

1931

George Lupton is with the Coca Cola Bottling Works,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Al Peery was discharged from the Navy December 27,
1945, after serving 20 months in the Pacific. He is married
and has a son 5 years old and a daughter 2. Home: Tazewell,
Virginia.

Joe Magee, now discharged from the Navy, is back with
the William Morris Agency, Rockefeller Center, 1270 Sixth
Avenue, New York 20, New York.

Jack C. Lovelace, recently discharged from the Army with
the rank of Captain, is now with Lovelace Motor Supply, Inc.,
Bozeman, Montana.

Dr. W. V. Rucker, discharged from the service in Jan-
uary, 1946, took a refresher course, and is now practicing his
profession in Bedford, Virginia.

Talcott W. Lancaster says he came up to the Yankee
country to work on the Manhattan Project, and thought
when the war was over they would let him go home, but it
looks now as if he will spend the rest of his life there. He is
with Electro Matallurgical Company, unit of Union Carbide
and Carbon Corporaticn, Niagara Works, Niagara Falls,
New York.

Walter Wurzburger has been out of the service since No-
vember, 1945. In the spring he was back in China, but was
expected home soon. His mother’s address: 225 West 86th
Street, New York 24, New York.

Paul F. Mabley, since his return from the service last
January, has been busy getting into the swing of being a
country lawyer once more. He is practicing law in the Na-
tional Bank Building, Richmond, Michigan.

Manuel Weinburg has resumed the practice of law at 1
East Church Street, Frederick, Maryland, after two years ser-
vice in the armored division of the Tank Corps.

1932

R. Robert Hornor is now out of the Navy and back with
the Delaware Gas Company. They have recently organized
the Benson Oil and Gas Company, of which he is vice-Pres-
ident. Address: P. O. Box 225, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Jack M. Matthews is practicing law in Galax, Virginia.
He says he is still single and spends all of his spare time out
of the office with his dogs and his fishing rod.

Major Collas G. Harris is executive officer of the Analy-
sis and Research Division of Civil Information and Educa-
tion Section, GHQ, Supreme Commander for the Allied Pow-
ers. He is on the staff of the Supreme Commander, who he
Says is a good solid and staunch Republican, but still will not
let this influence his New Deal thinking too much.

Charlie Long is still at his post as Counsel to the Judiciary
Committee, House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.
He is maintaining his permanent residence at 3716 Stratford,
Dallas 5, Texas. He has two sons—the youngest to arrive on
February 22, 1946, and hopes they will both go to Washington
and Lee.

M. William Adelson has recently severed a partnership
with Smith, Barrett and Adelson, and is practicing law at
1816 Baltimore Trust Building, Baltimore 2, Maryland.

1933

Simon M. (Sy) Painter, now discharged from the service,
is back at his home in Bedford, Virginia, head coach for base-
ball at the school where he has been since 1934. He is half
owner in a Dairy Corporation.

George Hagadorn, after two years in the Army, is now
back with the National Commercial Bank and Trust Com-
pany in Albany, New York, doing investment analysis. Ad-
dress: 849 Park Avenue, Albany, New York.

Bob Morris has been coaching at Ashland, Kentucky, high
school for the past three years and is moving on to Ashland
Junior College next year.

Robert Kaplan, now out of the service, is active partner
again in Interstate Stores Company, Owensboro, Kentucky.
He is married and has a young son.

E. B. Rannels has given up his defense job and is now
vice-president of Twin City Motor Company, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.

Joe Bear, now out of the service, is back on the job with
Bear Lumber Company, Montgomery, Alabama.

Jeb Darby is still with Cutler-Hammer, Inc., pioneer elec-
trical manufacturers, Milwaukee, Wisconsin in charge of the
Houston, Texas office, at 817%4 Main Street, Houston, Texas.

Peel Rivers is Representative for the Equitable Life As-
surance Society, Suite 1500 Starks Building, Louisville 2,
Kentucky. He has a son Christopher Peel Rivers, born last
April.

1934

A. M. Fowler arrived home in March after a little better
than two years as a Commissary Officer in the Navy. Address:
Hotel Belleville, Belleville, Illinois.

Francis L. Patton is now back in the practice of law in
Leesburg, Virginia, after 3% years in the F.B.I.

Bernard (Bus) Steinberg has been General Manager of the
Federal Bronze Products Company, 305 Coit Street, Irving-
ton, New Jersey, for the past eight years. He has been mar-
ried eleven years and they have two boys, Bob and Dick,
aged six and three. Address: 14 Roosevelt Avenue, East
Orange, New Jersey.

Norwood E. Band is minister of the Park Congregational
Church, Midvale Avenue and McMichael Street, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania. He is secretary of the Philadelphia alumni
chapter.

1935

George E. Short taught school for four years after grad-
uation at Washington and Lee, and since that time has been
with the Pompton Lakes Plant of DuPont Company. He is

[ 33 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

married and has a daughter named Joy, nearly three years old.
Address: West Oakland Road, Oakland, New Jersey.

Thomas W. Mehler was married to Miss Jean Hoffman
-on December 2, 1945. He is out of the Army and connected
with the Landscape Department of the Waynesboro Nur-
series, Incorporated, Waynesboro, Virginia.

James Finley has joined his father’s firm, Lowery D. Fin-
ley and Company, Surety Bonds—Insurance, Citizens Bank
Suilding, Norfolk 1, Virginia.

William B. Gabb is with Benjamin Moore and Company,
Paints, as a salesman. He has recently purchased a large
house to accommodate his growing family. He has two daugh-
ters, Susan, aged 5, and Sally, aged two. Home: 550 Clark
Street, Westfield, New Jersey.

Purnell Diggs, now discharged from the Navy, writes
that he married a Navy nurse some two years ago at Pearl
Harbor and they now have a small daughter.

E. Lloyd Watkins, M.D., is practicing obstetrics and gyne-
cology at 525 East Mt. Airy Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. He is married and has two children, a girl, Judy, age
4, and a son, Tommy, age 2.

Lee Reeser returned to this country from Germany after
serving fifteen months overseas but found enough fascina-
tion in overseas duty to reenlist for another year to take an
administrative job in Military Government. Home address:
R. D. Number 3, Media, Pennsylvania.

Dick Dunaj has been working for the Navy in Aircraft
Radio Design. He is married and has a daughter 8, and a son
4. Home. 2818 Crest Avenue, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

1936

Joe Pette and Emmy Dickman are still playing semi-pro
ball and Joe says they still get a big kick out of it. He says
Cap’n Dick needn’t worry about W. and L.’s battery for 1960
because his four year old son can throw a harder ball than he
can. Address: 14 Strathmore Lane, Rockville Centre, New
York.

Paul G. Hervey is in his fourth year as superintendent of
the Enloe Public Schools, Enloe, Texas. His wife is doing
some special work in music and their son is in his first year
at school.

Dick Scully is attending night law school at the Univer-
sity of Connecticut. He asks that his class agent convey his
best regards to all his classmates. Address: 177 Brace Road,
West Hartford, Connecticut.

Arthur Hauck is in old Mexico supervising the erection of
a sulfuric acid plant for the Chemical Construction Corpora-
tion of New York, having been in the field for this company
almost ever since leaving Washington and Lee. During the
war he was building acid plants all over the states mostly for
the Ordnance T.N.T. plants. He was married to Dolores
Droste in April, 1944, and they have a baby daughter, Karen,
born September 22, 1946. Address: care of Cia Minera Arsaco,
S. A., Apartado 66, San Luis Potosi, S. L. P., Mexico.

George Harrison is representative of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society, Henderson, North Carolina. His terminal
leave expired in December of last year, after five years and
three months of service, with three of those five years spent
in Africa, Sicily, England, and the Continent. He is married
and has a son six years old.

1937

L. V. (Jimmie) Butler is a partner in F. M. Crump and
Company, Cotton Brokers in Memphis, and also operates a
large Ginning and Farming business and two large Milling
Plants in Missouri. He is president of the Washington and
Lee Alumni chapter in Memphis and served as Class Agent
for the Academic Class of 1937 for several years. He is al-
ways interested and helpful in University affairs.

C. R. Hauke was released from the Army on May 1, after
spending nineteen months in Germany. He was with the First
Division which were some of the first troops in Germany,
entering September 14, 1944. He is now back with Haskins
and Sells, C. P. A.’s, doing public accounting again.

Clark Winter is now out of the service and with the Amer-
ican Express Company as Assistant to the Executive Vice-
President. He is married and they have a daughter 14 months
old. Address: 220 Smith Street, Merrick, New York.

V. R. LaVolpe was released from the Army in January,
1946, and is now with the Mount Holly Herald, Mount Holly,
New Jersey, in charge of special advertising and promotional
projects, one of which has been written up in the national ad-
vertising magazine.

George W. Lowry lives in Clinton, Oklahoma. He says:
“From January 1 to June 1, I traveled Eastern Kentucky and
had an opportunity to see a good many boys from school.
That is something I seldom get to do out here in Oklahoma.”

I. M. Scott—released from the Navy with rank of Major—
is back with Lee I. Robinson Hosiery Mills, Inc., 23rd Street
and Allegheny Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

 

(Notes by Class Agent, E. W. Marks)

Harry T. Moreland—‘ First off I got out of the Navy ef-
fective February 22, 1946. I was released to inactive duty as
Lieutenant in the Reserves. Immediately, in fact before I was
off terminal leave, I returned with the Company and was
stationed temporarily in Staunton. I was there. only a few
weeks and then this job opened up down here and I reported
to this office for duty on March 4, 1946. It is about the same
position I had in Bristol, with probably a little more terri-
tory and plenty more work. In addition to Montgomery, I al-
so make Mobile, and in Florida, Pensacola. My family has
increased. Yes, I am the proud papa of a now four months old
girl. She was born in Norfolk before I was out of the ser-
vice and, needless to say, she started out her life traveling
around quite a lot. We are very proud of her though.”

Amos A. Bolen—First Huntington Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia. “I got out of the Navy on Decem-
ber 12, and have been back in the office since January 1.
I had expected to find it very difficult getting back in the
law business, but was happily surprised to find that it was
not too tough. Other than Jack Higgins, I know practically
nothing about the boys of our law class. You should have all
the dope in your position of class agent. I did have an op-
portunity of Add Wagner's return to the practice of law as
a partner in the firm of Wagner, Wagner and Wagener.”

1938

Charles F. Clarke, discharged from the Army with the
rank of Lieutenant, is now back in the practice of law with
Squire, Sanders and Dempsey, 1857 Commerce Building,
Cleveland 14, Ohio. He was married April 3, 1945, to Virginia
Gray Schoppenhorst.

[ 34 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Al Sherman served for two years in the Navy and was dis-
charged in February, 1946. He is now teaching accounting
at the Junior College of Connecticut at Bridgeport, Connecti-
cut. He has been married for five years and he and his wife
have a daughter almost four years old. Home address: 116
Harness Drive, Milford, Connecticut.

Bob White, after more than five years in the Army, is now
associate publisher with his father on the Ledger papers,
Mexico, Missouri.

Price Berryman, now discharged from the Army Air
Corps, is back in his home town, Fredonia, Kansas.

Robert C. Walker, after serving in the Army, is now work-
ing in Columbia, South Carolina, connected with his father in
the Joseph Walker Company, Cotton Merchants.

1939

John S. Mehler is now librarian of the University of Alas-
ka, College, Alaska.

Jim Fishel has been discharged with the rank of Captain
and is now a member of the firm of Jasper, Lynch and Fishel,
Inc., Advertising, 17 East 49th Street, New York 17, N.Y.

Thomas R. Bryant, discharged after over three years ser-
vice in the Army, is now president of Fallon, Florist, Incor-
porated, Roanoke, Virginia. He is married and has a son
seven months old. Home: 420 Lincoln Avenue, Lee Highway
Court, Roanoke, Virginia.

Edgar L. Smith practiced law in Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia, from graduation until he enlisted in the Army in Jan-
uary, 1942; went overseas in September, 1942 and served over
three years in the Middle East, spending most of the time in
Turkey and Iran. Discharged, November 15, 1945. Now prac-
ticing law in Lewisburg, West Virginia.

G. William Swift, after service as a pilot with the 13th Air
Force, has now returned to civilian life and is a member of
the law firm of McCoy, King, Anderson, Hall, and Swift. In
June, 1945, he was married to Betty Jane Richardson of Fort
Worth, Texas.

1940

Lieutenant G. Watson James, III, completed his medical
course last April and has now been activated and expects to
spend the next three years in the Army. He was married in
1943 and has a little girl about a year old. His permanent ad-
dress will be 2809 Grove Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

William E. Buxton was discharged from the Air Forces
in August 1945, shortly after getting back from Burma. Since
returning to normal life he has been connected with the
brokerage business, i.e. stocks, bonds, etc., with Carl M.
Loeb and Company, 61 Broadway, New York, New York.

T. Kennedy Helm, Jr., was in the Army from the summer
of 1942. He is now discharged and is associated with the law
firm of Doolan, Helm, Sites and Wood, Kentucky Home Life
suilding, Louisville, Kentucky.

Hal B. Watterson returned from the Pacific in March,
1946, and is now discharged from the service. Home: Rogers-
ville, Tennessee.

. Donald G. Buck, now discharged from the army is work-
ing in the Sales Department of A.B.C. Address: Greenwat
Apartments, 10 Holder Place, Forest Hills, New York.

Jim Willis is now working in the construction of frozen
food lockers in Greensboro, North Carolina. Address: 402
Nottingham Drive, Greensboro, North Carolina.

1941

Robert C. Peery, now out of the service, is working in
The First National Bank,, Richlands, Virginia. He was at
Washington and Lee for the spring dances.

Herbert M. Woodward, Jr., became Treasurer and Busi-
ness Manager of Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry
Forest, Virginia, on January 1, 1947.

Ralph E. Keehn was discharged from the Army as a Lieu-
tenant Colonel, and is now employed by the Texas Company
in Ganado, Texas. Address: Edna, Texas.

1942

Richard H. Turner, was on terminal leave from the Army
Air Corps when his letter was written in August, and at its
expiration expected to go to work with his father in the Pen-
sacola Buggy Works, Pensacola, Florida.

Robert C. Walker is Cashier of the First National Bank,
Lexington, Virginia. He was in the Navy for three years,
serving as a Communications Officer and had sea duty most
of the time.

Paul Zumkeller, now discharged from the Army Air Force
after two years service overseas, is working in the men’s de-
partment of Ackemann Brothers, Elgin, Illinois, studying
to be a buyer and eventually merchandise manager.

Fred H. Pitzer is now with the Group Division in the
Aetna Life Insurance Company. He is permanently sit-
uated in South Bend, Indiana. Address: care of Aetna Life
Insurance Company, The National Bank Building, 112-114
West Jefferson Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana.

1943

J. Tyler (Bud) Bowie is with Bowie’s Supply Company
in Washington, D.C. He is a frequent visitor to the campus
and active in the Washington Chapter of Washington and
Lee Alumni.

Fred T. Miller after receiving his discharge from the Army
Air Corps in 1941, accepted a position with the Adel Precision
Products Corporation of Burbank, California, one of the
Country’s largest suppliers of Aircraft Hydraulic and Anti
Ice equipment. He is the Aircraft Sales Representative for
California, Oregon, Washington and Nevada. He married a
California girl “who has not been East of the Grand Canyon”
and is looking forward to bringing her to the Washington
and Lee campus. Address: 1322 North Naomi Street, Bur-
bank, California.

1944

Richard Stanley Watson has recently entered Princeton
Theological Seminary, where he is preparing for the Presby-
terian ministry. Address: 400 Alexander Hall, Princeton
Theological Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey.

Bruce Quayle, Class Agent for 1944, through the belated
workings of the draft has been sworn into the Army, after
having served for one month as Editor of the Fairfax Stand-
ard of Falls Church, Virginia. Permanent address: 127 Harris
Avenue, Freeport, New York.

[ 35 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pictures

For HOME or OFFICE
@

%2 After considerable delay, we are delighted to an-
nounce that pictures in full color showing the lawn and
buildings of front campus are now available and may
be ordered from the alumni office in either of two sizes—
20 x 15 and 35 x 25 inches... Suitable for home or
office, these pictures are believed to comprise the most
satisfactory art work ever created to capture the familiar
loveliness of the Washington and Lee campus... . Price:
Large size $2.50...small size $1.

IMPORTANT

Recently the Alumni Office mailed a questionnaire to all alumni whose
addresses are on our files. This information is to be used in an Alumni Direc-
tory planned in connection with the Bicentennial celebration in 1949. To
date only about one-third of these questionnaires has been returned. You
can render a real service by returning the questionnaire immediately. If it
has been misplaced, drop us a card and we will send you another one by re-
turn mail.

 

 

 

 

 

 

