See t <4

pease nett ine

 

 

 

 

 

 

ppc
G. W. Summerson, Bristol, Va.

Arkansas

James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Alex M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland

John C. Hoover, 4428 Marble Hall Road
Birmingham, Alabama

John F., Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

Com. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

W. R. Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio

E. Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

Carl -V. Harris
Cumberland Valley

Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg.
ty een ous Virginia

C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Memphis, Tennessee

L. V. Butler, 60 S. Front Street
New York, New York

Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. Dewey Davis
Roanoke, Virginia

E. H. Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California,

Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State

George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
OPES yee

. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.

Charles F. Suter, Union Trust Building
Waynesboro, Virginia

Tom L. Seehorn

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

$2.50 a Year
Vol. XVII JULY, 1942 No. 5
ee Harry K. (Cy) Young, 1917

Managing Editor....GEORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PYOMECHEO. eae Joun C. Morrison, 1925
Serer Harry K. (Cy) Younce, 1917
TRAST OR ek Dr. Reip Waites, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
R. G. WuiIttte, 1924
Rocer Bgar, 1914
jouw. lL. Crist, 1973

RicHarpD T. Epwarps, 1933

 

About Our Cover

The view on the front cover this time is one that
we have never published before and suspect no one
else has. It shows the east entrance to the campus
with the gates in memory of the soldiers of World
War I in the background. Particularly to be noticed
is the growth of the handsome hedges of boxwood,
planted there by the Garden Club of Virginia, for
which club this picture was made.

The photograph is by the Ewing Studios of Lex-
ington.

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

  

Summer,

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

a ND how is the summer school?”—That’s a question
A that is frequently asked of us who are here on the
campus. To that inquiry, | address some observations.
ee
In the first place, we are trying to insist that ours 1s
not a ‘summer school.” This term has
fairly definite significance in the Ameri-
can thinking. It implies usually consider-
able variation of the teaching process.
The average “summer school’ of an
American institution introduces new fea-
tures, new teachers, new courses, work or
recreation designed partly for the sum-
mer mood.
ee

Our summer work 1s literally the Uni-
versity in cont-nuing session. F;very course
offered is a regular Washington and Lee
course; every teacher is a regular Washington and Lee
teacher; and the vast majority of the students are regu-
lar Washington and Lee students.

. ee

The statistics indicate that the enrollment for the first
term of the summer session is 290. Of this number thirty
are summer students only; and in this thirty are twenty-
four women. All other students are the regular Washing-
ton and Lee men, including about twenty freshmen who
elected to enter in June rather than in September.

oe

Everybody, so far as I can learn, is gratified with the
quality of the work. The tempo is quickened—it might be
said ,though I should not urge this point, that the work is
a little harder than in the regular session. But the earn-
estness of the students is unmistakable.

eo Oe

In normal times, there are certain advantages in sum-

 

sExperiment, 1942

my 1" ae a Me il | se hy fi id hY re if r re iA al
tha Si irhe "bt OE
! lila! if

witer HB ocd Fd bed Meta tht heh HO

mer work. Of course, there are the disadvantages, but
certainly there are two potential gains. One of these is
in the matter of concentration; our courses are meeting
five times a week and in the second term will meet six
times a week, and the students keep the subject matter
more consistently on their minds. An-
other probable gain in the summer: study
is found in the absence of many distrac-
tions, many of them intrinsically valu-
able in themselves, which crowd the regu-

lar nine months.
Hee me

But this time is not normal. Our boys
are here, almost without exception, in
order to graduate more quickly and thus
be prepared sooner for some responsible
relation to the cause of our Country.

*K KOK

This fact is important, and it ought to be strongly
emphasized, that the Government itself has recognized
the importance of trained men for the present emergency
and has provided wisely that gifted boys may continue
their college program, subject to various conditions, until
graduation. With full patriotic conscience, a boy may go
steadfastly on in his college work so that when he does
serve, he will serve more effectively.

ee

There is a powerful obligation on the boy who fol-
lows this course, however, to get his preparation as
quickly and as thoroughly as possible. The Washington
and Lee boys in our summer term are living up to this

unplicit injunction.

r y
ft. < Oak Se qa 8

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

How Can We Save the “Old Blue”?

ust how serious is the intention of the officials of

Washington and Lee to tear down the Old Blue Hotel
we are not in a position to know, but that such a plan has
been recently considered is beyond doubt.

The building is certainly in wretched condition right
now. Though a few students occupied it last year, every-
one seems to have come to the conclusion that no one
else should live in it until improvements have been made.
Furthermore, it has been allowed to deteriorate to such
an extent that engineers even fear it may collapse. The
quaint and beautiful old porch on the front appears not
to have been painted in years, and everything about the
property gives evidence of decay.

Under such circumstances, any repairs that were un-
dertaken would have to be thoroughgoing—yust as radi-
cal as were those performed on the main building in
1936—and the cost would be between twenty and thirty
thousand dollars. Since it can be demonstrated by simple
arithmetic that to tear the structure down and build anew
would be cheaper than to repair it, the suggestion has
been made that the Old Blue be razed at once and a new
building be put up in its place when the time comes for
such things to be done.

In spite of the cogency of such argument, we some-
times doubt that arithmetic, however simple, can al-
ways be applied. As a building, the Old Blue may be
junk. There are far newer, sounder, and more expensive
ones at Duke or the University of Texas. Yet some of
the more important factors which distinguish Washing-
ton and Lee from thousands of brand new universities
or even a large assortment of cow colleges all over this
country are age, tradition, and beauty. Therefore, we
submit that the Old Blue, by several years the oldest
building on the Washington and Lee campus, should be
preserved at all costs, because it partakes of all three of
these factors to a marked degree. It is the sort of thing
represented by the Old Blue that may even be said to con-
stitute our chief raison d etre.

With all this in view, we are quoting with great
pleasure the excellent editorial which appeared in a re-
cent issue of the Rockbridge County News. It was writ-
ten by Matthew K. Paxton, ’18, who knows his Lexing-
ton, and it seems to us that it furnishes in itself sufficient
cause for keeping the Old Blue intact. We ought to
add that determining the exact date of a structure of
this kind is difficult and that there is a bare possibility

that the original tavern may have been built even earlier—
in 1785 to be exact. Following is Mr. Paxton’s article:

‘Luk OLD BLUE Hore.

“The old Blue Hotel, known also at times as East
Dormitory, belonging to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and located on the east end of the campus along
Main Street, was the first licensed tavern in Rockbridge
County. During its historic past it has doubtless housed
thousands of travelers who moved along the Valley Pike,
the great roadway by which pioneers went to the West
and Southwest from the earlier populated east. Andrew
Jackson doubtless passed by this tavern and may have
stopped there on his way from Tennessee to the White
House.

‘A substantial building was standing on this property
as early as 1817, according to historical data compiled
by Mrs. Charles McCulloch. February 12, 1817, one
Jacob Clyce who owned large properties in the county
was the highest bidder for one-half an acre near the town
of Lexingion, one eighth of a mile northeast of the
Court House, adjoining the college lands. The price paid
was $1050, which would indicate valuable 1mprovements
which undoubtedly constitute part of the present Blue
Hotel Building.

“In 1819 the buildings and land were assessed at
$1,578.36, of which the buildings were valued at $1,100.
Incidentally, the tax on this property that year was $1.43.

“Jacob Clyce, however, was not satisfied with the state
of the buildings and evidently with the idea of opening
an inn at the very gates of the town of Lexington, made
improvements prior to the year 1827 when the buildings
were assessed at $2,000, it being noted that $900 had
been added. During these years Clyce had acquired more
land, including the meadows across the highway. The
$900 added at this time is thought to have represented
the present front and facade of the Blue Hotel. He also
spent $200 on adjoining lots which were most likely
stables where the Whiting Service Station now stands.

“In 1834 Jacob Clyce borrowed money through a deed
of trust on this property which gives such description
that one can almost reconstruct the tavern property. The
deed reads: “Three certain lotts lying in the Town of
Lexington, to-wit: the Tavern Lott, on which said Clyce
now resides, and keeps a tavern, the lott on which the
Tavern stables now stand, adjoining the above-mentioned

ag

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

lott also the meadow lott opposite on which his shop
stands and adjcining Preston’s lands.” A lot of furnish-
ings for the inn and several slaves are included in the
security.

‘Jacob Clyce himself was a carpenter. It seems prob-
able, however, that Colonel John Jordan, the most ex-
tensive contractor during the day in Rockbridge, had
something to
do with plan-
ning of at least
the front part
old
property with

Gi< this

its slender [on-
ian pillars and
the lunette in
the

erace

attic: 46
its fa-
Three

ages are visib!c

cade.

in the prick
building. The
front Main
Street addition
is of the Eng-
lish basement
style with the
handsome _par-
lors on the sec-
ond floor. The
large room en-
tered beneath the porch on the street level would have
been the bar and lobby with room enough for all sorts and
conditions of men stopping for refreshments.

“The first record of a license to keep an ordinary
was issued here at the May Court of 1829 to Jacob Clyce
as ‘a man of good character, not addicted to drunked-
ness or gambling.’ For this he paid $18.00. The tavern
was conducted after 1840 by Jesse F. Clyce, Jacob’s son,
and in 1845 it was issued in the name of the ‘Western
Inn.’ In 1848 it became the ‘Exchange Hotel’ and bore
the name when purchased by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity from the heirs of James H. Clyce in 1871. James
F. Clyce’s appraisement recorded March 22, 1853, lists
a quantity of wares for his ‘ordinary, including 1200
‘segars’ and numerous bottles of champagne and barrels
of whiskey and brandy.

“The ‘Old Blue’ is indeed one of Lexington’s most
historic, interesting and beautiful buildings. It is said to
be in bad repair and now stands vacant. If anything would
happen to ‘Old Blue’ it would be a calamity.”

 

The Old Blue Hotel which is being abandoned after at least 125 years. Must it be
torn down, or can it be restored as alumni headquarters?

When we were talking with Cy Young on this sub-
ject the other day, he made what to us seemed a marvel-
ous suggestion. Why not reconstruct the Old Blue as it
ought to be and then use it for the Alumni Headquarters
which your Association has been so long anxious to ac-
quire. It would make a place for returning alumni to use
as their own home when they are here: there could
be a few bed-
rooms; there
would be facili-
ties for enter-
tainment. It 1s
a need which
has been felt a
long time, and
what place in
Lexington
could possibly
be more con-
venient or ap-
propriate for
the purpose?

As everyone
is aware, there
isn't a_ thing
that could be
done about it
right now when

the
ment. Cannot

govern-

a permit con-
struction of this kind. But that situation isn’t going to
last forever. During the interim, if there are any parts of
the building so weak that they might fall in, they could
surely be temporarily propped up. Certainly a coat of
paint here and there would not be out of the question.
And in the meanwhile, why couldn’t the alumni start col-
lecting the funds for an eventual reconstruction ?

Save a tradition and acquire a home. When this war
is over, the country is going to need all the anchors it has
to those things of the past that represent our best tradi-
tions, because we are likely to be adrift in a very strange
and perilous sea. Washington and Lee represents one of
these traditions, and in that tradition the Old Blue is not
without importance.

We have never invited letters, but we'd be glad to
hear from anyone on this subject.

 

Epwarp M. Ritey, ’31, received his Ph.D. in History
at the University of Southern California in June.

[> |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Glee Club Wins Regional Contest

ONTINUING its ex-
Cai record of
the past few years, the
Washington and Lee
Glee Club, in competi-
tion with some of the
biggest colleges in the
country, won the Fred
Waring contest in its
region, the middle At-
lantic “states. As- some
readers will remember,
not the first

time our club had such

this ‘was

success, since they won

 

a similar regional con-
test in Washington in
od.

The contest, open to all college glee clubs in the
country, is sponsored by Fred Waring, the orchestra

John G. Varner, Director

leader, in conjunction with his Chesterfield program, and
since the finals were broadcast from New York, over 108
stations in the NBC chain, it is probable that a great
many alumni heard the performance of the young men
representing their alma mater. The regional contests
were held by means of recordings, made locally at the
various colleges and sent on to be heard by Waring in
New York. Our club, in the final regional competition,
“defeated” Temple and the University of Maryland.

There were eight colleges in the national finals, The
University of Rochester, Duke, Elmhurst, the University
of Oklahoma, Dartmouth, Purdue, and Redlands, being
the others. The all-round prize went to Rochester, but our
organization received plenty of honorable mention. Ko-
chester, after all, is a big school with one of the most 1m-
portant schools of music in the country.

Much of the credit for the Glee Club’s outstanding
achievement should go to Professor John G. Varner, di-
rector of the club since 1938. During his four years of
directorship, Mr. Varner has built up an interest in
choral singing which is probably matched on few cam-
puses. Believing that prima donnas, as he calls them, only
disturb the perfect co-ordination and team-work which
are the secret of choral singing, Mr. Varner selects boys
with average voices and then trains them as a unit. The
result has been an organization which is a far cry from

what some of us old fellows recall as the rather childish
rag-time glee and mandolin clubs of other days. These
boys sing serious classics, and under such expert direc-
tion as they get, they receive and deserve serious musical
consideration.

To many alumni, we are sure, it means more to see
their coliege making a national name for itself in acivi-
ties of this grade than in the razzle-dazzle of big-time
athletics. Congratulations are decidedly in order for Mr.
Varner and the forty boys who sang themselves and their
college to fame.

 

Hrram Dow, '08, says that the three members of the
Board of Bar Examiners of the state of New Mexico
have a semi-annual chuckle among themselves when they
meet to give examinations because all of them: Mr. Dow,
Pat Hamilton, “24, and A. H: McCleod; ’29, arc Wasi
ington and Lee alumni. Mr. Dow notes further that Dean
Sadler, 09, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, is
also a graduate.

 

THis spring a handsome portrait of Miss Annie Jo
White, for many years librarian of Washington and Lee,
was presented to the University by an anonymous donor.
It was painted by Miss Harriet Burdette who has done
many portraits for the col-
lege, and represents Miss An-
nie at her desk in about 1903
or 1904. It now hangs in the
lirary browsing room, which

The

legend attached to it reads:

is a memorial to her.

‘In memory of Miss Annie
White, presented by Friends
from ‘Téxas:”

JOHN SPEIGHT HUNTER,
Jr., 04, graduated from the

 

(‘Cannon
Ball’) Beuhring, ’14, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, law-
yer, will be remembered as
an outstanding fullback on

Southeast Air Corps Train- Raymond L.

ing Center at Turner Field,
Georgia, on the 23rd day of

May, 1942, and is now a

the Generals’ teams of
1911-14. He is now class
agent for *41-L.

lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps.

| 6 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The One Hundred Ninety-Third Finals

T WAS difficult to resist the contrast between the finals
I 1942 and those of 1932. The boys of ten years ago
faced a chaotic future because they didn’t know what
they were going to do. The few of them who had jobs
were lucky ex-
ceptions. Most
had no_ pros-
pects, and some
were actually in
idleness. for a
long time.

Phas year
things were
more chaotic,
but there was
no problem of
the
the immediate
future.
only a choice
of the “Arty:
the Navy, the
Marines, or the
flying
of any one of

shape of

lt -was

services

them.

With such a
future, there
was a certain
solemnity about the one hundred ninety-third Finals, a
solemnity that spread even to the gayest of Finals ac-
tivities. )

Few alumni returned. Transportation was_ hardly
available, for such purposes. Those in attendance came,
for the most part, from nearby. We could only hope that
those necessarily absent were here in spirit.

The fact that the commencement exercises began at
six in the afternoon, doubtless for the first time in his-
tory, was one of the minor details which emphasized the
seriousness of the moment, characterized here by the ‘‘ac-
celerated curriculum.” Another was the date, May 26th,
after a driving semester, concluded with one week of two-
hour exams instead of two weeks of three-hour exams.
There was no time to fool around with commencement
ceremonies. ‘l'o its own consternation, the faculty met at
8.00 a.m. the morning of Finals te make the official

 

The figure at this year’s Final Ball

awards, and even then felt pressed for time with the

printers awaiting these decisions before going to press
with the program.

In spite of all this, the 193rd Finals were successful.

In all, 473: sie

dents

degrees of va-

received

ridus ‘kinds: a
drop of only
gi FOr last
year. Five hon-
orary degrees
were awarded.
Exercises were
tidooTs.thrs
but the

diminished size

time,

of the crowd
made this ar-
rangement sat-
isfactory.

Dr. Clarence
W... Crameord,
pastor
Calvary Bap-
ti St
| Washington, D.
C., delivered the
baccalaureate

of the

Church,

sermon; there were the customary entertainments, in-
cluding the President’s reception, and the alumni smoker
with which the annual meeting was combined this year.
The Final Ball was not neglected and went all night as
always. Dr. Gaines delivered the commencement address.
Paul Baker was valedictorian.

All in all, except for the prevailing seriousness of the
mood and the dearth of visitors, this year’s Commence-
ment Day was indistinguishable from any of the others.

Honorary degrees were conferred as follows: Dr.
William Jackson Humphreys, ’88, physicst and professor
emeritus of physics and meteorology at George Wash-
ington University, Doctor of Science, Dr. Edward Luth-
er Green, 92, professor of ancient languages,. University
of South Carolina, Doctor of Literature, the Reverend
Mr. J. Lindsay Patton, ’22, rector of St. Mark’s Church,
Berkeley, Claifornia, Doctor of Divinity, J. G. de R.

iy

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Hamilton, professor of history at the University of
North Carolina, Doctor of Letters.

“cholarships and awards were distributed as follows:

ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIPS

Howard Houston Fellowship: Buford Stuart Steph-
enson, Virginia; Mapleson Scholarship: Paul Baker, Jr.,
Kentucky; Vincent L. Bradford Scholarship: William
Stilwell Wilcox, Georgia; Luther Seevers Birely Scholar-
ship: John Sebastian Derr, Jr., Maryland; Franklin So-
ciety Scholarship: Stuart Moore Faison, Virginia; James
McDowell Scholarship: Robert Francis Johnson, Vir-
ginia; James D. Davidson Memorial Fund Scholarship:
William Henry Armstrong, Virginia; Robert Alexander
Scholarship: Thomas Carlyte Wilson, Jr., Ohio; George
A. Baxter Scholarship: Carlyle Westbrook Barritt,
Pennsylvania; Henry Ruffner Scholarship: Norman
I'rancis Wyatt, Virginia; James J. White Scholarship:
Porter Thompson Hubbell McCauley, Illinois; Mary
Louisa Reid White Scholarship: Philip Powers Page,
Jr., Illinois; Taylor Scholarship: Corneal Bernard My-
ers, Jr., Virginia; John H. Hamilton Scholarship: Lloyd
Jackson Lanich, Jr., Maryland; Young Scholarship: Wil-
liam Benjamin Van Buren, III, New Jersey; Inter-Fra-
ternity Council Awards: Edward Earl Alverson, Ala-
bama; George Warren Priest, Ohio.

DEPARTMENTAL SCHOLARSHIPS

K@ononiics: -Kdward Paul : Lyons; jr, Atkansas;
Commerce: S. L. Kopald, Jr., Tennessee; Biology : Rich-
ard Hance Shepard, Oklahoma; Physics: Charles Lewis
Rast, Jr., South Carolina; Physical Education: Robert
Atkinson Hite, Hawaii; Political Science: Kenelm Law-
rence Shirk, Pennsylvania; History: Clifford Day,. Jr.,
Missouri; Education and Psychology: William Bell
Guthrie, Virginia; Latin: Edgar Dean Finney, Connecti-
cut; Geology: Richard Emanuel Basile, New York;
Journalism: Richard James Houska, Virginia; Spanish:
Henry Harris Schewel, Virginia; French: Lloyd Hol-
lingsworth Smith, Jr., South Carolina; English: Richard
Rockwell, Connecticut; Accounting: Donald Everett
Garretson, Illinois; German: David Hamilton Smith,
Virginia.

PRIZES AND AWARDS

Santini Medal: Charlton Thomas Fuller, Pennsyl-
vania; Cincinnati Essay Award: Charles Mabin John-
-son, Alabama; Sigma Delta Chi Scholarship Award: Ed-
ward Calohill Burks, Virginia; Algernon Sydney Sulli-
van Medallion: Thomas Alonzo Clark, Georgia; Daniel
Curtis Lewis, Jr., Virginia; Individual Intramural ‘Tro-
phy: William Robert Gaines, Virginia; Intramural Ath-

ey

letic Trophy: Phi Chapter of Delta Tau Delta Frater-
nity; Lind Prize in Chemistry: Robert Samson Rosen-
feld, Virginia; Robinson Award in English Literature,
History and Social Sciences: Edward Salohill Burks,
Virginia; Robinson Award in Languages: Buford Stuart
Stephenson, Virginia; Robinson Award in Mathematics
and Science: Nelson Clarence Steenland, New Jersey;
The George A. Mahan Prizes for Creative Writing:
Freshmen Joan Gonzales, New York; Omer Thomas
Kaylor, Jr., Maryland; Paul Bolton Shamhart, Jr., New
York; Sophomore Harrison Burton Kinney, Maine;
Junior Carlyle Westbrook Barritt, Pennsylvania.

 

Rear ADMIRAL CHARLES P. SNYDER, 799, was ap-
pointed in June by Secretary Knox to be Naval Inspec-
for General with “broad powers of inspection, investiga-
tion and inquiry into all matters which affect the effici-
ency and economy of the service.”

An announcement said the Inspector General’s sphere
would be “broadly construed’? and would include in
general, ‘all naval activity not restricted by law or ex-
cepted by orders of the Commander In Chief, United
States Fleet and the Chief of Naval Operations, or
higher authority.”

 

Witt1am MosrLty Brown, 14, and Christopher T.
Chenery, ’09, have been elected to membership in the Phi
Beta Kappa Associates, an organization founded to co-
operate with the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa in
the development of a high caliber of American leader-
ship. Messrs. Brown and Chenery are two of the ten new
founding members elected on April 17, men and women
who are well-known in the civic and professional life of
the nation.

 

CLARENCE W. Merapows, ’20, resigned his position
as Attorney General of the state of West Virginia when
Governor Nce'y appointed him judge of the Raleigh
County circuit court. As attorney general, Meadows was
the youngest man ever to have held the position when he
was elected in 1940 at the age of 32. He succeeded ex-
Governor Homer A. Holt, 18, who has previously been
the youngest incumbent.

 

Rosert MarstTELLeR PEEK, JR., ’37, graduated from
the Air Force Advanced Flying School at Mather Field,
California, on the 21st of May and is now a lieutenant
in the Army Air Corps.

[8 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Campus Comment

By Mat Deans, ’43

UMMER SCHOOL has come to Washington and Lee for
S the first time, and with it have come a few lady stu-
dents, a twilight softball league, and an extra amount of
hard work.

The summer enrollment is less than a third of normal,
and consists of main-
ly a serious-minded
group intent on get-
ting all the education
possible before join-
ing one of the nation’s
numerous service
branches. Their social
been
curtailed somewaat
with all the girls’ col-
leges being
and the work is no-
but
the complaints heard

activities have

closed,
ticeably harder ;

are tew and far be-
tween.

The most
feature of the sum-
session is the

unique

mer
girls of course, but
they have not seemed
to deter Washington
and Lee men from
their work, for the li-
brary is as full every
afternoon and _ even-
ing as it usually ~ is
during the regular
sessions—despite the small number of students.

“Cy” Twombly has given Washington and Lee an
excellent intramural sports program for the summer,
which is highlighted by a twilight softball league con-
sisting of seven teams. Games are played nightly at seven
o'clock, and the interest shown so far has been excellent.
Twombly has also instituted an intramural golf program
and a tennis tournament. The swimming pool is open
every afternoon; the tennis courts are getting a lot of
use, and Cap’n Dick Smith has organized a summer base-
ball team. So the opportunities for sports are numerous
and varied.

 

A few of the first freshmen who ever entered in June

Social life has naturally undergone a letdown because
of all the girls at Hollins, Macon, Baldwin, Sweet Briar
and the rest being gone, but a Christian Council group is
making the best of the situation with a series of social
affairs including informal dances at the Student Union,
hayrides, and picnics.
As yet the expected
shortage of women
has not been very no-
ticeable, what with the
coeds, town girls, and
weekend
around.

visitors

A vacancy was left
in the Summer Ex-
ecutive Committee
when vice-president of
the student body, Fe-
lix Smart, faved. 16
return to school. Clif-
ford Day, senior com-
mitteeman was moved
up to fill this position,
and the executive
commitee then elected
another senior, Jim
Walker, to fill Day’s
old position.

Lack of advertisers
made the publication
of the Ring-tum Phi,
semi-weekly campus
newspaper, impossible
this summer, and in
order to furnish the students with a publication, Joe
Ellis, editor of the Ring-tum Phi, with the collaboration
of some of his staff members, has been putting out a
weekly 3-page mimeographed bulletin called ‘’The Cam-
pus.”

All in all, Washington and Lee is not noticeably dif-
ferent from its usual self. The honor system, conven-
tional dress, the fraternities, The Corner Store, the
buildings, the faculty, and that undefinable spirit among
the students are still here. All this is Washington and Lee,
and we are not letting Hitler, Mussolini, or the two-faced
Japs take it away from us.

—Photo by Roger Winbourne, Jr.

ev

The Alumni M fearine: Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of July 1, 1942

NOTE: In compliance with the requests of
the military and naval authorities, we have refrained
from giving any information about Washington and
Lee men in the armed forces save their class and
branch of service. However, the Alumni Office ts
vitally interested in other pertinent data, such as
rank, station, permanent home address, or other ad-
dress from which mail will be forwarded, special ac-
tivities, etc. -

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as.
possible with our alumni in this time of stress, and
any information concerning alumni in service will
be greatly appreciated by this office.

Name and Class Branch of Service

Adains, Copeland 7... 33-ba ihe eeu ies Navy
Awad, Frendticks C0" Jn, 39252 eee iene ee Army
er CMO OG i ee hese es estepen deena Army Air Corps
Allee Willan Merril: 36... ic5. os ea: Army Air Corps
mri (Oe 1, See ea eee Army Air Corps
PO TC seen ee ee eae Army
Bate Edwin We 38) eee shies ie Navy
Baker.James Pethain, [65.607 lice cou hae Army
Ballgge.- Byron, 45. ee ee ge Army
Burrage, Manley O/ ia aie kee peri Army
Black fered Hee 33 eon Rial snp O we ae Navy
Blaloe Bands Ao 374 ee i ee Army
Bonds eee 16 iO ye Army
Branaman, Dr. Guy Hewitt, Jr., ’35.......... Naval Medical Corps
Brooke: ieee: NG OFS a a a ee ee Navy
Brown: Wo estor,- SU aaa a rs ea aetna Navy
Bryant, Frank. ©. S40 coc a tis os sass tue scarnniee sees Army
Burton, Donald “Uhomas,“40....500203) eae ae Naval Air Corps
Casio ben hein Wa AL ari Gee ac cian ees Navy
Cardertee (iran, (2s oo) bye tte eee Navy
lath, Sera i ei a ee Army Medical Corps
Cleveland; Samuel Ttden, Jr, (39 Army Air Corps
Cee POI ls i ee aa eh eerste Army
Cocke He Assim 43.00 ose ais Aes ioe Army
rate Ader ee Pe, Seeks be ss Hl ine eae a Navy
HDavidsow, Coaries Hyder it.. O2654. nb ied Navy
PAG DDS CERWIN Bing G2 BS oe oied cits gk lcci cle ies seanenaees Army
Deucled Al OG oe ees uke anion Army Air Corps
Drewree Wiliam Chaise, (26 cen cine endetandesceneersee Navy
Pyuncad anes: Pilar Ole, © O61, beri eter ee Navy
Py yh et CPOs) BAL, oiiias repens ee veesccepe ise ens takes eens Coast Guard
Bevatise orviit C lat 166 79 G8 ce etic ie eas iian neal uefa Army
Fatikner, Tames Nios. ci a a el mee Navy
Rellaws Robert James: 36... oi ceiige cued naiont Army
Foote, George MM, 40.4 ice evel Marine Corps
Pha Willie fart l ty Oo canta Army Air Corps
Fréemaa, Di olaines: Vio G2. 6k i eee ee Army
Wes, Te Ci scar se 20. is ces hee ee eo e ee Army
(ariel Fo Mi BY ie ies A inte bh ae er mee Army
Garteld> Zalmon “tletzel; “40. ok a ieee Navy
Gayle. RODERE Tyg. AG. iicccie-cersscoscsesteneanerneoee Army Air Corps

Name and Class Branch of Service

Gilmore Chattes “Goddard, "30 42044 ai dike dn Navy
Giinodinan, Claude Lavin, (0 0c oneness Navy
Gordon 61 20 a Army
Griswold, E- Roger, (352.2004. ie cea viel Glee Army
Geos Fl erbert,. S225, aii Gide eel eee nda one tenes Navy
une Ache. 34 a ea Se aaa. Army
Haroer, Georve: Hilliard. 933.402. ce Marine Corps
Piarris6. Ao dt tt oe ee eG Army
Flendetson, Natthew @.. "22.05 ee Army —
PLe@yi® 1 CiNCR 22 ss ae eee Navy
Petes) Witla Pe AF eee ee eee es Army
Fienacer. Samuel Allet (ioe ee Army
Hope; Benjamin: Bj te ibaa boone Army Air Corps
TLOrmer, (2 RODEhE Oe onl irc uate ee Navy
Howe, Robert: Fo 20 6 Army Air Corps
tHowerton, Waher.<0c8.k. ee ee ee Navy
Tones; TOun Pyne, GA ous lak kK Ni ne os ong Navy
Woerr, (hares Ste nnGl, SA koe i ce ae ek. Navy
© Sect: Are Be oe a lt ees Army
Lee, Beverly Wilts, Jr. AC week Aa ee Army
Lice Stephen: Bio. O72 oni Gar ee a ne Navy
Joerent. Leonard 86.0 Sele ens Army Air Corps
Poe; janes, (too a Navy
MeéCardetccAc Toe Ft 2 ee ce i Aas Re ie a Navy
ieeCardell- Tol Maicolmy 3/10 ae ise Navy
Mee hive, Jamce A. 1 ioe see Navy
MeChire: Dre Jonni 26 3 seins icieesies Army Medical Corps
Mev ute 1 honiss. AG. ai See a ke Navy
Meleaay Cant aan eh ieee Marine Corps
NEG us PP Elo hy eens caret ese ck edie trsnbee Army
Mataulay, Ajien: ‘lenney, Oi... See Army Air Corps
Madion, George 119 a ee. Army
Mapoou -Tarold Calvi, 232 -4.0044508. ike Army Air Corps
Martin, James Bignd. site eae eee, Navy
Mason, Charies: Wael 14.0 Gk ee Army
NEE tr BI) BRI GOL. st ii cikcccioseko lo eae see Army
Meurony, | Josep Gy deel rie. ve gests haere Army
Bauepny, (Paul bo aie sone a a aan ee Army
Myers, Dr. George Rogers; Jr., 36.253... Naval Medical Corps
Cowen tDamel, (its 4 ie a, owes) Soe oe Army Air Corps
Palermo: Ewin), 40a i eel Gail i ae ots Army
Bavie Titers. 196" is aioe Marine Corps
Peapoce, it fen a Navy
Pease, ames: beormany 30; 10062 eee Sy ie Army
Peek, Robert Marstéllar, $6; (SA.553.2.5.. Army Air Corps
Perkins. Wilhainy Whetstone, 9. a ae ae Army
Pettiprew. Wigan Gregory O/.. ee ee Army
Pitcher: Georen, It.) (67 jis. eek ee es ee Army
Porter; Dr Reno: Ro Sh ibd ee Army. Mediccal Corps
Puen, Fart ne. Ae oe ices eee sess ee Army
Racchite,: Vietor, (30a a oles Army Air Corps
Ray: tomer Genes 18. 3b uc ake see er ee Army
Reeves, joann Randolon, 942 .0..36 coi ee ee Army
Ropitison, Trederic Morrison, (36.5 ccc i oe Navy
oti: aware Us. It. (40 a Sai Sh a Army
Radue, : Pervert. 94 a eee Army
Rylaoa, Jamies Rucker. 35.5... Bh ee oles Coast Guard
Santord,: Richard Wot. O62. eas ei Army
spackelford, Janes Murdock, (28%... 6c. soe Army

| 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Sharer, Wilbert 4.239. cn ee Marine Corps
Shictis, Rhabcolon «it Oc. 22 Army Medical Corps
Shively,. Glenn, ecco ve ee Naval Air Corps
Smith, “bhontas. © -90- £.. ccs. dssvieacsceceege ee es Navy
Grvedet: © perles (Fo 00y. unk cud Navy.
Speheler, Dr. Luther Campbell, Jr.. 29.4.0 is Navy
strong, Pred: deh osset,: 735, .555:.cscai ieee ies ele Navy
Stuchet: Walain “Ly, a0 ice, Naval Air Corps
Poet th oe, Ob A il ne Army
ale tel ee FA Be idee aye ec a ele Navy
Py¥ler, pater CO ward, 403035) .csin cease de ae Army
Watts, james (wet 11.0 304s el ee ee Navy
Wrolls,  Stepnenson.. 3h. tas. clibeawae cc ne Navy
White fr Re, 100 ee Army Medical Corps
Wiidtee Dr 1. P pesto bin duis cctor Army Medical Corps
We hitiey,. ieee ee Navy
WalesOnline ee ees Navy
Willige. annie broward. O46 el cleus eee Navy
Wisoa Wy eat 1 Fe i ea ee Navy
Winters Byte 2 66. Jf. 50nd sil ee Army
Wioonwvard. pierbett. 4 bo rE eee Navy
Wiireeurcet, walter Ss. Tr., Ol... agains peice. Army

 

Dr. Gaines Speaks at New York
Chapter Luncheon

THE New York alumni met at a luncheon held at
the New York Chamber of Commerce Building on May
6th. The meeting featured an address by President
Gaines. Among those in attendance were the following:

Francis P. Gaines; John M. Glenn, ’79; Roy J. Grim-
ley, 21; William Moseley Brown, ’14; Emmett W. Poin-
dexter, ’20; Allan P. Lee, 08; James Castner, ’29; Stuard
A. Wurzburger, 28; W. J. L. Patton, 22 ; Gos-
sett MeRae, 27> kh. F. Keller S. M. Ward,
[157337 Vess Bo devine; 33; PG, Guideigs,
Oa fio Be Winer, 37k Re ba are
Ethan Allen, 31; W. F. Myers, ’20; Thomas
Aimbler: yilkins,. 26;:-Wm. Re Burion, 1/7;
Row st ytoe. 15> John 7. Bronerivikt 1%, 224
Se Wy, ochaetter, 045 Wim -t1.-Tallen). 3b;
Robert 5: tee, 29° Hark By Morgan, try 40;
Garret Hisers, jr. (30> Prank 2: Price, 38 |
(George Glynn, 35 i:A. 11, Morawick, d.,
007 James M. Branklin, ’35+ Hugh kh. Haw-
taorne, 10; Lindsay R. Henry, ’25+-Lewis S:
Musgrove, 21; Junius L. Powell, 14; M. B.
Rogers, 717; Joe Lykes; 09; Edwin C.. Caf-
trey, OY.

 

Captain (U.S. Army) O. B. McEwan
(LL.B., ’40) and Mrs. McEwan announced
the birth of a son, Christopher Gaillard, on
June 27th at Orlando, Florida.

North Texas Chapter Gives
Bonds to Alma Mater

Because of the emergency, the North Texas Chapter
called off its annual meeting and banquet and in place of
it asked the members to send annual dues which would be
invested in War Bonds to be given to Washington and
Lee. A large number of members contributed dues of
$2.00 or more, and as a result the University has received
two twenty-five dollar bonds and seven dollars in War
Stamps:

We cannot refrain from congratulating the North

‘Texas chapter on this scheme which we suggest could be

fcllcw .d by others.

 

P.d. Yoner, '39,. has beeen studying at the Jaw
school of the University of Florida since his graduation
and has certainly compiled an enviable record for himself
ticre. He has becn elected to Phi Kappa Phi, Bule Key,
and the Honor Court as representative of the law school.
In addition, he was president of the Phi Delta Phi law
fraternity and president of the John Marshall Law As-
sociation—an extension of the Florida Bar Association.
Besides these extra-curricular honors, he, with one other
student of his class, has made the highest scholastic aver-

age since the present system of grading was instituted
in, 1929.

 

Left to right, Lieutenants William A. and George A. Murray, 41. Re-

membered by their classmates as co-captains of track and prominent cam-

pus figures, the Murray twins are now pilots and instructors in the Army
Air Corps. They recently graduated at Kelly Field, Texas

iit]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Fund as of July 6, 1942

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

WEPISGS 91 A/S ae le i Alumni Office
WET TRG a. es 1O0 00s ss oe Dr. E. L. Green
a ee Re BU ee B. A. Judd

1094, Dea iva Pe ee Alumni Office
OTTER es Oo: ees Alumni Office
WIE TOIG i... 1, PT Spats ee J. W. Eattomus
MERTOOS PETES. BAO. ee: Ae Alumni Office
EBON se. 3380 Vi Edward A. O’Neal
RE ck He, Fo 0 Alumni Office
OR Si Boe0 6 es Samuel Ruffin Horne

190}s 65.5... DO A. F. White
OTI907 BSoc30 5 POO ay cy a ye Be Wall
EYtTOG3 oe ee BOR Rev. Cary R. Blain
71904 2... an OU ga J. B. Akers
POOTOOS oo. .. a f930.3. Dr. T. Dwight Sloan
PFT OUG. 2. 1D a Poe ak Henry. €.:-Tillean
FACTO? 2 VS gaa O90 E. Clyde Hoge

1908 A........ ZOge 10600) 2 | Rev. Grover C. Gabriel
SET 1O08 Loo... 14 PO900 a Hiram M. Dow

#1909 A...:.... ios We ce Alumni Office
PET POOO Te Oe, PP a, Guyte P. McCord
WON TOT ASS, 30.2 212 a C. W. Streit
wee Le Ai 1 SO Alumni Office

ii A. 16 Ak: PSO Alumni Office
PERTTI Toc... iy. PR ee. William S$. Engleby
PSIG A: 2... LP i che ee Dan Owen

19T2 1, .c.... Fi cscs snes MN a Russell B. Wine
WA 19TS AL. a... Oo. oe 0 a C. C. Moore
ENNIO Les. fo Bou, say, resin Henry B. Goodloe

1914 AW Os: ABS oo Walter J. Wilkins
Ser 0i 8 Lo Po ee a. R. Lee Beuhring

19015 Ac PO ee Charles Beall

1S 13 Fick PANO Aa a es 4, De Trimble
tRETOILG As Sn a TORSO tics... Harrison P. Magruder

$91G too8 fp ee AB OO alas Edmund Magers
PNET TR pa See oe i James A. Lee
*ER1OT/ 1105... a Po ay John R. Brand
MOOD TB sees ccecs hs POs a Horace C. Hearne
SON 1TOTS se Oe. OF 00. Rev. Theodore H. Evans
er to20 AL We os ASYG0e gee Thomas McA. Stubbs
*E*1920 Joo. ss POU eee Chester S. Shade

 

*More contributors than last year.
** More money than last year.
*** More contributors and more money.

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

WEFT A s. 20S. WO DOs ce ais Homer E. Henderson
WPEL0 2) Le. Bo SO Un ek ea R. C. Wood
M1922 Ales Pee $39,060, oe Troy C. Musselwhite
128 1g Sey Po oe Joe L. Silverstein
1923 Ae. gies SOC Ga ee A. C. Bry
F925 Tock kc. Se DIU. dai ae Robert H. Carr
PERIOIE AL OR ok. Oe John F. Hendon
OPA Pi, FOU i aa John W. Greene
wre tos mee ey SA ODE css Rev. Bruce A. Gannaway
NNO 8 eas Boy 6500 William A. McRitchie
er i026 Aw ue Lease. Of OO eas Thomas P. Foley
WEEIOIG Lois Og Se i ee. Earl Valentine
1927 Aas toe C20 DG eg Judge J. T. Lowe
1927 Fs. ek ae 4 OD acs. John DeWeisse Carter
TOF 1028 Ary... tC 107 008 savas J. W. Alderson, 7
(0g ts Pood es 400-6 on J. Harold Osterman
1929 Ao ae LEGO Irwin T. Sanders
PUNT ODOT as, He FeO ea Charles L. Claunch
** 1930 A........ 20. AOD Gh eit: acs eer Kenneth L. Ken
ESE FOB aes: BELO oa se Thomas D. Shumate
BFE IOST A. Boa PLOWS Sai Ben M. Ayars
WAIOST Ue Be SOOO ge O. J. Wilkinson
Peng Av Bis, Oe Sa William C. Edwards
REPL OF be GOO ee ee Ross L. Malone
PIDGS A A. Bc iG ae Luther Violett, Jr.
ONPG 1G cs eo ltl lel aaeharscae oe Bernard B. Dawe
OTT OSA AL Pe a to) ee Fred O. Funkhouser
WER IOS4 fi § wee CRO Layne H. Ford
1959 Acc. aE Ses ZOO. occa ee Rolland H. Berry
yon... Ke ns 1G BO ee Alumni Office
TOSG A ii BO eae. BOO icc Rey... James. L:. Price, 4
Ce ee C. Olin Brownell
TRIO ar 18 ics Oe a. Howell W. Roberts, Jr.
I9SF T ic, Secs SO a Edwin M. Marks
1938 Acc: baa BP ee Harry M. Philpott —
FLO 5 lai, kak Qe DOR oc aa Dwight A. File
we 19SG A. es, Pei Se Ui Allen T. Snydem
AIG Gee side BU DU John L. Hawkins, #
**TO40 Aas..s... Pisce 2 LOO DULL Rai ee A. Lea Booth
1940: 1..23,... Piactee. F100 a John Newton Harman, III
194 AG. Pet BOOM eae Charles L. Hobson
194) Lies Psd DANO ca nia Pete S. Barrow
e** N One Grads: 5....)...5 So eS Alumni Office
LOLS i). BOBS i ccivieet $9,102.36

Note: The above report of the 1942 Alumni Fund represents the largest number of
contributors and largest amount of money, on this date, since the inception of the
Class Agent Plan in 1933. There are approximately 300 men who contributed last
year from whom we have not heard. It is not too late to write to your class
agent, or, if you prefer, send your check direct to the Alumni Office.

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Minutes of the General Meeting

or the first time, as far back as anyone can remember,

this meeting was not held on the Washington and Lee
campus, the reason being that the usual alumni luncheon
was cancelled on account of the small number of alumni
who could return for Finals. Instead of the customary
luncheon held on the campus for alumni, their wives and
friends, and the graduating class and their families, a
Dutch luncheon for alumni only was given at the May-
flower Hotel. It was thought best that the meeting be
held in the hotel immediately following the luncheon.
‘There were some sixty alumni present.

On motion, the reading of the minutes of the last
meeting was dispensed with.

The next order of business was reports of com-
mittees. Mr. Stuart Moore, °14, local alumni represent-
ative on the Athletic Committee, gave a very interesting
report on the athletic situation in general, and how the
athletic program might function under war conditions.

Mr. Ki Williams reported for the Nominating Com-
mittee. The following men were presented by this com-
mittee and unanimously elected, there being no nomina-
tions from the floor, to fill the two existing vacancies on
the’ Atumni Board John ty. Crist,.13, and. Richard J,
ldwards, °33; as alumni representatives on the Athletic
Committee, Stuart Moore, 714, and W. C. Raftery, °15.

The Secretary gave his annual report on the year’s
work of the Alumni Office, and it was accepted.

Under new business, there was a very lengthy discus-
sion of the decision of the University to admit women to
the first summer session held at Washington and Lee. A
motion was made by E. C. Caffrey that the Association
go on record as against the admission of women to the
University at any time in the future. This motion was
thoroughly discussed, and before it was put to a vote,

C. S. Glasgow offered the following substitute motion:
“Without criticism of the administration, trustees or
faculty, the Alumni Association goes on record as against
the admission of women to the University at any time in
the future.” This substitute motion was also discussed at
length and before it was put to a vote, M. W. Paxton
made the following amended motion to the substitute
motion: “That no women be admitted to the University
at any regular term of the University.”

The Chair ruled that the amendment to the substitute
motion should be placed before the meeting before the
original or substitute motions. This amendment to the
substitute motion was voted upon and carried by a large
majority. At this point, Mr. Caffrey was asked by the
Chair to re-state his original motion, in order that it
might be placed before the meeting. Mr. Caffrey did so,
and his motion also carried by a large majority.

Due to the conflicts brought about by the necessity of
a shortened Finals, Dr. Gaines sent his regrets to the
meeting for not being able to extend his usual welcome
to alumni.

The Chair recognized: the presence of Mr. RK. B.
Campbell, Class of 1879, as the oldest alumnus present.
Mr. Campbell responded with a few well-chosen words
of appreciation.

The last order of business was the President’s report,
given orally by Mr. Morrison. He stressed the difficulties
of the Association functioning under war conditions, but
felt that the Association had been successful in spite of
this, and emphasized the necessity of all alumni giving as
much support as possible to the University during this
emergency.

There being no further business, the meeting ad-
journed.

 

Annual Report ot the Secretary

ce Most used word on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus since December 7, 1941, has been “accelerate.” I
see no need to stop the use of it now, and will therefore
accelerate this annual report.

At the opening of college in September, this year
gave promise of being the most active one from an

alumni standpoint in our history, but the declaration of
war immediately placed a different aspect on things, as it
did to practically every other normal activity. In spite of
this, however, we feel that the year has not been a total
loss. Under severe handicaps we have tried to carry on.
It is true that our local associations have not had as many

[13]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

meetings as in the past, and your secretary, not having
an “‘X”’ card, has not been able to visit as many chapters
as he would have liked. The meetings that have been held
were good ones and at most of them there has been a
representative of the University present. As you would
judge, these representatives tried to present how the Uni-
versity was functioning under war conditions. This in-
formation has bcen disseminated among all alumni
through several bulletins written by Dr. Gaines, and
through the Alumni Magazine. :

I reported to you last year that in my opinion the
biggest step forward made by the Association since the
inception of the Class Agent Plan was the starting of a
program of student-alumni relations. In spite of work-
ing on a smaller budget, we have been able to continue
this program, and there are many concrete results to
show that it 1s bearing fruit. I repeat that the obvious ob-
jective of a college or university is to prepare students
for their life’s work; the objective of this program is to
prepare students for their life as Alumni. On April 29th
this year, your Association was again host to the Senior
Class at their annual banquet. This has grown to be one
of the most delightful and instructive social affairs of
the year.

The war has presented many problems in connection
with our work within the alumni office. Chief among
them is the increase in the number of changes of ad-
dresses. So many of our alumni, both young and old, are
entering the armed forces, oiten being stationed tempo-
rarily at a number of different posts. For instance, we
have hundreds of requests for changes like the following:
Business address—24-9-143 United States Naval Air
Station, Jacksonville, Florida; Residence address 11
Pomme Rose Avenue, Port of Spain, Trinidad, British
West Indies ; Home address: 311 Marlboro Road, Einzle-
wood, N. J. And if this alumnus ever visits our office in
years to come, looks at his card, and all of the above
doesn’t appear, he'll say “You have had the wrong ad-
dress torn, But im<spite of this, we are doi our
best to keep up with the many alumni who are serving
their country, a partial list of whom appeared in the
May issue of the Alumni Magazine.

Last year, our annual meeting fell on June 6, at which
time I stated that the report on the Alumni Fund was the
largest we had ever had. The report before you exceeds
that report both in the number contributing and the
amount contributed; this in spite of the fact that our
meeting is being held two weeks earlier than usual. The
exact figures given at the meeting last year were 813 con-
tributors for $6,073.40. This against 849 contributors for
$7,269.18 in the report before you.

On February 5th, your Alumni Fund Committee met
in Lexington. It was the consensus of opinion at that
meeting that with everyone being called on to buy bonds,
savings stamps, contribute to this drive and that, the
fund this year was certainly in for tough sledding, and
that we would be fortunate to even approach last year’s
figures. If this campaign continues as they have in the
past, with a good number of late contributions coming in
after June 1, we will undoubtedly have the best year the
fund has known. And here let me express publicly my
appreciation and that of the Fund Committee for the
excellent work of the 80-odd class agents who have given
their time and money to make this year the best. Many
of them took on the work of class agent this year in ad-
dition to the many calls upon their services caused by
the war. \

In closing, I would also like to thank your president,
John Morrison, and the Alumni Board of Trustees for
the fine cooperation they have given me in these trying
times.

 

Benton McMILitin WAKEFIELD, '41, graduated last
May from the Naval Reserve Training School at North-
western University, carrying with him a special sword
of honor. It was presented by Mr. and Mrs. Edward N.
Gosselin of Joliet, Illinois, in memory of their son, Ed-
ward, who was killed in action aboard the U.S.S. Arizona
in Pearl Harbor. Wakefield received it as ‘the midship-
man standing highest in general excellence.” Consider-
ing that there were 800 in the graduating class, Benton’s
award was no mean achievement.

 

JAMES B. ALLEy, 13, was recently elected a director
of Manhattan Life Insurance Company. Mr. Alley, a
lawyer and member of Auchincloss, Alley and Duncan
formerly was a director of the Commodity Credit Corpo-
ration and director of the Export-Import Bank.

 

THE FOLLOWING letter in the hand of General Lee is
in the possession of E. A. Rogers, of Atlanta:

Washington College, Va.
20th June, 1869
Dear Sit,

I take pleasure in stating to you that the Faculty com-
mend your son, R. W. Rogers for the distinguished in-
dustry and success with which he has pursued his course
of study during the past session.

Very respectfully yrs.
Ri, Lee
Dr. C. Rogers
Thomaston, Ga.

[ 14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

James Brian Bell, 1890-1942

EOPLE all over the United States remember James

Brian Bell as a great newspaperman, but in the Alumni
Office we also remember him as something else: as an
active and faithful alumnus of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. We remember him when he used to come here to
speak at assemblies and
press conventions, and we
remember him as_ presi-
dent of the Washington
alumni group. We remem-
ber the model reports of

their meetings that he
used to send in, and we
wondered how in_ the

world a man so busy as
he, could possibly find

{ime to write them.

But Mr. Bell found
time to do more things
than most people ever

dream of in the 52 years
of his life, a fact which
emerges from the many
high tributes paid to him
in newspapers everywhere
on the occasion of his sud-
den death on June 8th
stricken

big-

when he was

while watching a
~ league baseball game.
A’ native: of: Gafiney,
South Carolina, Mr. Bell
started his newspaper ca-
reer. there at the age. of
19, serving as correspon-
dent for the Columbia (South Carolina) State. He at-
tended two other colleges before he came here: Presby-
terian College in South Carolina, and Davidson; but he
always most emphatically claimed Washington and Lee
as his alma mater. It was here that he felt truly at home;
here, at finals, when he would often go down and stay
with the boys at his fraternity house, Pi Kappa Alpha.
It was at Washington and Lee that he was tapped for
Omicron Delta Kappa and from this university that he
received the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature
in: 1937; ,

His first job after graduation was as reporter, then

 

Brian Bell, ’11, late AP executive

as sports editor and news editor with the Columbia State.
This position he held for fifteen years. Then, in 1924, the
lure of a more important career became too great, and he
joined the Associated Press staff in Atlanta. In 1925 he
was made chief of the New Orleans bureau; then was
sent to New York where
he spent four years on the
etatr. “ For: six
years, following his ap-

general

pointment in 1930, he was
chief of the AP bureau in
Los Angeles, after which
he became news editor at
San Francisco, wath ire-
for

and the western

sponsibility Hawaii
states.
Finally, in 1939, came his
crowning triumph when
the Associated Press made
him chief of the all-im-
portant bureau in the na-
tional capital.

During his extremely
active newspaper career, -
he made nationally fa-
what his _ friend
Kirke’ |. Samgeson reter-
red to as “the simple leg-
end: By Brian Bells

Over the years he directed

Mmous

the AP coverage .ot -siich
memorable events as the
. copes trial and the dea
of William Jennings Bry-
an; the sensational Hall-
Mills murder trial, and the take-off of Charles Lindbergh
on his flight to Paris. For many years a sports writer and
always a devotee of the game he was watching when the
end came, he was equally at home in Presidential press
conferences; and equally as efficient in the reporting of
the one as of the other.

He was a man of many friends—friends whose liking
erew from Bell's great charm of personality and whose
respect was engendered by what Mr. Simpson called his
“life-long service to the ideals of clean news and honor-
able competition.” They mourn his death from one end of
the country to the other and from the highest to the most

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

humble. Public tribute was paid to him on the floor of
Congress. Expressions of sympathy and praise were sent
by such well-known figures as Cordell Hull, Harold L.
Ickes, Claude R. Wickard, Justice James Francis Byrnes,
Gene Tunney, and many others. One of the most fitting
was given out by Stephen Early, secretary to President
Roosevelt :

“T think I should say that we here today are all sad-
dened by the news of the sudden death of Brian Bell.

‘As chief of the bureau, Brian had enormous respon-
sibilities, but none of them was ever too great for him. |
think the press of the country as a whole and the country
itself has lost a most valuable man at a most unfortunate
time. I am certain I express the President’s sorrow” (Mr.
and Mrs. Roosevelt were among the first to send condo-
lences to Mrs. Beil) “because the President and I have
known Brian Bell for more than a score of years as a
ne triend.”

One son, as well as his wife, survives him.

 

William Thomas Paxton, 1891]

WititiaAmM THomMAS PAx’Ton, postmaster and prom-
inent citizen of Buena Vista, Virginia, died suddenly of
a, heart attack on June 19th at the age of 72:

After graduation heve he established the W. T. Pax-
ton Real Estate Company in Buena Vista in 1892 and
remained in this business until he turned the company
over to his son in 1934, the year he became postmaster.

He was prominently associated with the development
of Buena Vista, serving on the city council for 40 years;
a director of the First National Bank since 1895, and its
vice-president for 38 years. He became president of the
bank last November. He served in the state senate about
1915, was a charter member of the Buena Vista Rotary
Club, a Mason, an Odd Fellow, and a member of the
Junior Order U.A.M. He was a member of the Buena
Vista Presbyterian Church.

Surviving are a son, two brothers, and three grand-
daughters.

 

William Edgar Waddell, 1896

WiLtit1AmM Epcar WapreELt died on June 2 in the
hospital at Clifton Forge, Virginia, to which he had been
recently taken from his home in Covington.

Mr. Waddell was born in Staunton on the 10th of
May, 1875, but his family moved to Lexington when he
was only eight.

Subsequent to his graduation from the University he

went to Covington where he was engaged at first in the
hardware business, then in the insurance business for
forty years.

He is survived by his wife, two brothers, and three
sisters.

 

Weddings

THE ALUMNI Macazinz is pleased to announce, with
congratulations, the following recent alumni weddings:

199i

PIERCE Byron Lantz to Mrs. Virgie Shouldis Cox
on May 2nd in Clendenin, West Virginia. There resi-
dence address will be 4001 Kanawha Avenue, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

1935

LoyaL PauLt GassmMan to Miss Patricia
Mathews on May 23rd in Freeport, Illinois.

Anne

1938

Witiiam LANEY WILSON, JrR., to Miss Elizabeth Lee
Gracie on May 16th in Cumberland, Maryland.

Ropert Harry Tuomas, Lieutenant, United States
Marine Corps, to Miss Mary Helen Shephard on March
Zlst in Washington, D. C.

1939

JoHN HiIncHLIFFE Ditt to Miss Eleanor Steele on
June 20th at the Glen Rock Community Church, Glen
Rock, New Jersey.

WALTER GEORGE WEBBER to Miss Mary Frisbie Rut-
land on April 29th in Montgomery, Alabama.

HEarTSILL Racon to Miss Paula Lemley on May
27th, in Atkins, Arkansas.

1940

LIEUTENANT (U.S. Army) Ross V. Hersty to Miss
Betty Lou Bush on June 10 in Waynesboro, Virginia.

1941

CHARLES ELMORE Bow es, JRr., to Miss Sara LeCron
Hubbard on May 2nd in Grace and Saint Peters Church,
Baltimore, Maryland.

1942
GEORGE MErcrEr Brooke, Jr., to Miss Frances Flem-

ing Bailey on June 13th in Saint Paul’s Church, Augusta,
Georgia.

[ 16 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1894

EpMUND P. CoLks says
there is no news of him-
self except that he is a
year older and still going
strong.
from

WaLTER McELREATH
has his offices in the Grant
Building, Atlanta, Ga.
tion, though.

1896

 

In the past we have tried to include in the Class
Notes some mention of every man from whom a
class letter was received. Now that it has become
necessary to reduce the number of pages in the

magazine, we are climinating the names of men
whom no new information
Since the information may be a year old, the ad-
dresses have probably changed anyway. The names
left out are not forgotten. We'd like more informa-

Parkersburg, West, Vir-
ginia, and is a member of
the firm of Ambler, Mc-
Cluer and Ambler.

1901

By JOHN M. CorBETT
Class Agent

was received.

EK. DuLANEY O?rtT con-
tinues to reside in Har-
risonburg, Virginia, where
lucrative law

he “has -a

 

 

Jo ce RURWELL. Tus
served as Commonwealth’s Attorney for Floyd County,
Virginia, for several years and is Trial Justice for the
same county. His home is in Floyd Court House, Vir-
einia.

H. H. Lartmorg is General Attorney and Interstate
Counsel for the Missouri Pacific Lines. His address 1s
Missouri Pacific Building, St. Louis, Missour1.

Wituiam F. Houck lives at 465 Washington Street,
Russellville, Alabama.

1897

WittiamM J. LINDENBERGER handles wholesale food
products at 16 California Street, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia.

1898

J. Sam Sricer is practicing law in Atlanta, Georgia,
with offices in the Georgia Savings Bank
Building.

W. D. McSwEEn is Judge of the Sec-
ond Judicial District of ‘Tennessee. He
lives in Newport, Tennessee.

7
~

1899

G. B. Caprro; M D., has his ofhces in
the Professional Building, Charleston,
West Virginia. He reports a large and
successful crowd of Washington and Lee “ij we Fe
alumni living in Charleston, but gives no

lp

personal news of himself. Hata

   

James S, McC Luer is practicing law in are

   
 

ns :
ii

aa roe

Wate}
wl i z lly Gin AA), "ptsee
ti allt =e Hs

practice and enjoys the
friendship of his community.

MatrHew Pace (“Potty”) ANDREws still resides in
Baltimore, where he is engaged in his monumental read-
ing and reference work on Virginia. No student of Wash-
ington and Lee has been more constant and loyal in his
affection for Virginia, its history and its traditions than
“Polly” Andrews.

1902

Witiiam H. Matons is a member of the law firm of
Murrell and Malone, Biscayne Building, Miami, Florida.
He promises to make a visit to Lexington in the fall.

1903

B. B. SurveEcy is practicing law in Marion, Indiana.
He still has faith “that Washington and Lee will ever
remain a glowing memorial to all those American tradi-
tions of freedom and courage that were
born with the Nation.”

Dr. Joun W. WARNER is a practicing
physician at 1029 Vermont Avenue, Wash-
ington, D. C. He was in Lexington early
in the spring.

1904

Kk. I. McKay, who served as class agent
for 04 for two years, is a member of the
firm of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and

a

   

Ferguson, Maas Office Building, ‘Tampa,
‘te Florida.

wal (lee

ARTHUR TABB is manager of the Tabb
Storage Warehouse, Louisville, Kentucky.

Pe

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

GEorGE G. WorTHEN is vice-president of W. B.
Worthen Company, Bankers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

1906

R. B. SprnpLeE is judge of the Corporation Court,
Norfolk, Virginia. His son is now a student at Washing-
ton and Lee.

GrorcE W. P. Wuip is still practicing law under the
firm name of Lord and Whip, Munsey Building, Balti-
more, Maryland.

L,. J. Deswa is a professor in the Chemistry Depart-
ment at Washington and Lee. His fam-
ily consists of a wife and three lovely
daughters, two of whom are married.

 

1907

By Donatp W. M. MacCLueEr
Class Agent

W. L. Lorp—Woodberry Forest ew
School, Woodberry Forest, Va. “As to “a S

»
=
—. eee ==
. C

   

news of myself, you don’t have much
in a school teacher’s job. I am winding
up twenty-five years of service in this
particular place in June, and hope to
be good for another decade. This is a congenial job
and a lovely place to live. I can not help to quiet that
suspicion of appearance, for I have grown horizonally
and lost vertically, as my hair is de-parted in the middle.
But I keep in good hea!th, and my wife and I enjoy life.
Our two children are away from us now, the daughter
at college in Nashville, Tennessee, and the son in the
engineering department of Lockheed Aircraft Corpora-
tion, at Burbank, California.”

Donatp W. M. MacCruer e City Presbyterian
Church, N.F,. Sandy and 44th streets, Portland, Oregon.
“After college I took four years work in three at Auburn
Seminary in Auburn, New York. We then went to
Chieng Rai, Thailand (Siam), as missionaries. I got the
jungle fever and was invalided home. Took the Third
Presbyterian Church in Niagara Falls, New York, for a
year. Then six years in Coldwater, Michigan. Then a

      

year and a half as an assistant in the Central Presbyterian
Church (U.S) in St, Louis; Missouri, For the past 21
years have been here in Rose City. Our church grew from
580 to 1350 and Sunday School from 475 to 1365, but has
now dropped back to about 900. We dismissed two
churches from our membership, and the depression years
resulted in fewer children. We are in a district that is
going into business, and we are becoming a downtown

vf
af

: oe yt ue

 

church. I have many odd jobs. Work hard all the time
except Monday when I try to go fishing. The figures on
my figure are as follows: Height, 6 ft. 1 1-2 in.; weight
194; hair mostly a memory; chest, 43 in.; waist, 39 in.
stripped. Bulge some but not too much. Have three mar-
ried children, two girls and a boy, all in or near Los
Angeles. 7

)

1908

BEN SMITH is secretary and treasurer of Real Estate,
Incorporated, 1120 Madison Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

S. M. Ray, Jr., is in the insurance business in Belton,
Texas. His family has grown up and scattered into West
Texas, the oldest son is teaching in Lub-
bock. His second son is with the Farm
Security Administration in Amarillo,
and his daughter is a junior at Mary
Hardin Baylor College in Belton.

 
  
      

CiybE L,. GREEN is County Superin-
tendent, Board of Education, Robeson
County, Lumberton, North Carolina.

DozigkR DEVANE is a member of the
firm of DeVane, Andrews and Patter-
son, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
Florida Bank Building, Orlando, Flozi-
da. He has had the job of class agent so many times that
he 1s very appreciative of his own class agent’s efforts

 

along that line.

ERNEST OrFutt is in the loan and insurance busi-
ness, specializing in Federal Housing insured loans, 1019

Sth: street, NeW, Washington; D.C,

WHEARLEY M. JoHNsSon operates The Clover Hill.
Farm, Manassas, Virginia. His oldest son is a senior in
the Washington and Lee School of Journalism this year.

Epwin H. McGitt lives at 141 West Santa Fé,
Santa Fe, New Mexico. His daughter, Frances, gradu-
ated at Mills College, Oakland, California, last June.

1909

L,.. J. Boxtry has his offices in the Boxley building,
Roanoke, Virginia. His enthusiastic interest and helpful-
ness toward Washington and Lee never seems to wane.

1910
Joun R. Cuaron is a coal operator in Dillwyn,
Virginia.
1911

Joun M. (“SHorty”) Gray, Jr., is a member of the
law firm of Gray and Gray, Brownsville, Tennessee. His

[ 18 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

family consists of a wife and three children, a daughter
12, a son 10, and another daughter 8.

Henry W. Dew is with the St. Joe Paper Company,
executive offices, Barnett National Bank Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida. His home is at 3420 Pine Street.

J. GRANVILLE JOHNSTON is chairman of the local
Selective Service Board, Murat, Virginia. He is a farm-
er and surveyor.

J. Paxton Barciay is manager of the Mid-West
District of The Pure Oil Company, The Pure Oil Build-
ing, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago.

1912

Tommy Gtascow is president of
Glasgow Stuart Company of Charlotte,
North Carolina. He and his family were
visitors to the campus during Finals.

  
 

EN HW
«oF M
TRAE i
Ss

ws

a

Paut A. RocKweE-t lives at 46 For-
est Hill Drive, Asheville, North Caro-
lina. He is one of the few people who
have made a lifetime avocation of being
a soldier—specifically a soldier of
France, One of the first Americans to
enlist with the French forces at the be-
ginning of the World War, he re-enlisted at the outbreak
of the Riff war in 1925, with the French Foreign Legion,
and served in Africa. Now he has returned from service
as an officer on the French General Staff in the present
war.

AMIE

0

   

Oy, ASS

W. L. (“Pin”) WEBSTER writes on stationery of th:
New York State Golf Association, as he is a member of
the Executive Committee.: His address is 1044 State
Street, Schenectady, New York. |

LAWRENCE E,. GOLDMAN is a member of the law firm

of Goldman and Koenigsdorf, Rialto Building, Kansas
City, Missouri. He has one son, who 1s studying medicine
at the University of Kansas.

At. LAVELY 1S a meniber of the law frm ot Burns
and Lively, Burns Building, Lebanon, Virginia. His part-
ner is Clarence C. Burns, UL.B., "OL.

EoLS

ALEX SLOAN is with the Sloan Glass Company, manu-
facturers of Cut Glass-stemware, Cumberland, Mary-
land.

Lewis TwyMaAn is a loyal alumnus because he testi-

fies to his membership in two classes at Washington and
Lee, academic 13 and law °16. He was on the campus
for the law °16 reunion. |

Grapy Doak Davipson has recently changed his ad-
dress from Harman, Virginia, to College Avenue, apart-
ment 1, Bluefield, West Virginia.

1914

Kennon C. WHITTLE announces a reorganization
of his law firm, the new members being Hannibal N.

, Joyce, LL.B., 32, and William PF. Stone, LL.B. (33, un-

      
     

 
 

=]

ee OO

WZ)
iN Won)

t)

Davy

I
ya

=

der the firm name of Whittle, Whittle,
Joyce and Stone, Martinsville, Virginia.

WititrAm MocsELEyY Brown 1s direc-
tor of the Vick School of Applied Mer-
chandising, 122 East 42nd Street, New
York. He is serving his second year as

    

  
    
 

Ost
Oh

president of the New York local alumni

      
     
      

chapter.

wh)
-{))
\ 9

Ihe Jucce ARCHIBALD BUCHANAN, of

 Thete
plenty of reason for Washington and
Lee alumni to be proud.”

Tazewell, Virginia, says: is

Jimmi£ THORNTON is a member of
the real estate and insurance firm of Fleming and Thorn-
ton, Huntsville, Alabama.

L&E BEUHRING, practicing law in Huntington, West
Virginia, is interested in veterans and Masonic circles,
and Washington and, Lee football teams.

1915

Cares R. BEALL has been practicing law in Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia, since serving two years in the
Great War. He is married and has a son eight years old.
During the last few years he has been active in civic
matters.

JosEpH BENJAMIN JOHNSON is farming near Ma-
nassas, Virginia. He has two sons.

1916

C. EpmuNpD WorTH is a member of the law firm of
Worth, Bivens and Lively, First National Bank Build-
ing, Tampa, Florida. He says that Uncle Sam’s military
activity has reduced this to a one-man firm, as the navy
has Mr. Bivens and the army Mr. Lively.

RussELL S. Ruopes is still general manager of the
Chamber of Commerce, Tulsa, Oklahoma. His daughter,

[19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Katherine, was a sophomore at Randolph Macon Wo-
mans’ college last year and expected to enroll this year in
the University of Oklahoma for her junior and senior
years.

Bruce WooprvuFt is still a member of the law firm of
Woodruff and Ward, Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.
He has been practicing law in Atlanta practically ever
since he finished his law course. He is married and has
a son who is headed for Washington and Lee.

1917

Jim FAULKNER is in the insurance business in Dallas,
Texas. His son, Jim, Jr., graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1940. His offices
are in the Liberty Bank Building.

Bos McDouc te 1s still practicing law
in the Citizens National Bank Building,
Parkersburg, West Virginia.

| eg Bg OO oes
P< yg a
= DS

 

Frank J. GILLIAM is Dean of Stu-
dents, Washington and Lee University.

UN

| = cy :
RS NSE

I

W. COB”) HAGAN is «with : the

 

 

      
  

R. E. SHERRILL is head of the department of Oil and
Gas Production at the University of Pittsburgh School
of Engineering and Mines.

W. C. ANDERSON is working for the government at
Camp Blanding—some fifty miles from Jacksonville. He
gives his address as 331 West Church Street, Jackson-
ville, Florida.

1923

A. C. (“Gus”) BRYAN is supervisor, Mortgage Loan
Department of the Provident Life and Accident Insur-
ance Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He married
Flizabeth Ratcliff of Shreveport, Louisiana, and they
have a son two years old.

Cy HAtt is practicing law in the Kana-
wha Valley Building, Charleston, West
Virginia. He has served as class agent and
appreciates both the privileges and disad-
vantages of the job.

PrABopy Howarp is district attorney
general of Hamilton County, Chattanooga,
‘Tennessee.

ee 1924

Connors Steel Company, P. O. Drawer, or ee
952, “Birmingham, Alabama, He has a — Ce By Oris Hows, Class Agent, 1940-41
married daughter. MMM
a JouN HeENDoN is president of the
1918 ——- Washington and Lee Alumni in Birming-

F. K. NeEtson, Jr., is in the florist business, 514
Tampa Street, Tampa, Florida.

1920

Tom OrpDEMAN is still a member of the faculty of
Oregon State as Associate Professor of English. He has
been there for the past fourteen years. He has two chil-
dren, Ann 9, and Dan 6.

T. SELDEN (“SHRIMP”) JONES is practicing law in
the First Huntington National Bank Building, Hunting-
ton, West Virginia.

1921

Dr. Joun T. Bars is practicing surgery in Louisville,
Kentucky, where he is the surgeon for the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company and a number of other
large industrial and carrier concerns.

1922

Ropert M. Bear is still teaching at Dartmouth col-
lege, Hanover, New Hampshire. He was in the midst of
finishing up odds and ends on the new house which he
built some months ago.

ham and has been very successful in the parking-lot busi-
ness in that city. He is still a red-hot Washington and
Lee supporter, in spite of being kept busy with civic in-
terests in his own home town.

Joe Hopkins writes again from Clarksdale, Missis-
sippi, where he practices law when not representing his
district in the State Senate. Joe is still one-of our class
bachelors, of which we have entirely too many.

Fp Howarbp is lucky enough to be teaching at Wash-
ington and Lee. He writes that while they are concerned
about the effect of the war on the enrollment, they will
always carry on. Those who, like Ed, have the privilege
of maintaining their contacts with the University, do not
know how much the rest of us envy them that oppor-
tunity.

Otis Howe, your class agent, is engaged in the manu-
facture of hardwood lumber and in farming at Wabash,
Arkansas, near Helena. We are just about seventy miles
below Memphis, near the Mississippi River. Cotton is
the principal crop of this section.

Jimmig Hurr has had a new son at his house this
year, Jimmie Junior, so he is a very proud father. He is

| 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

still located in Columbus, Georgia, with the Flournoy
Realty Company.

STUART McCork.e is director of Municipal Re-
search at the University of Texas. He was in Lexington
twice this last year and was impressed with the improve-
ments at Washington and Lee.

Joun H. WILLIAMS is another member of our class
who still keeps the home fires burning as a professor at
Washington and Lee.

Britt MckKnicut now lives in Demarest, New Jersey,
where he is interested in the manufacture of flavoring ex-
tracts and cosmetics. He has been mar-
ried four years and takes an active in-
terest in the New York Alumni meetings.

Joe McMarsx practices medicine in
Cincinnati, Ohio. We hear from him each

 

 

year, but he doesn’t tell us much about .# Fe

“pi aS:
himself. NSE A
W. A. Peavy still resides in Shreve- .—-Re:: =

(

|

port, Louisiana. He writes that he at-
tended two other universities after leav-

4
t tl ih

 

   

wife presented him with a daughter on October 31, 1940.
Well, a little baby can make a lot of things that would
have been important fade into insignificance. Allan also
has a son, three years old. Allan and I were both “born
right” for war. We were too young for the last one, and
just missed the draft by three months this time. But he
is with the Jeff Hunt Road Machinery Company, in
Columbia, South Carolina, supplying machines extensive-
ly in all phases of the Defense Program in South Caro-
lina. By the way, he says that Irwin Stolz, ’24, is his
neighbor across the street.

Henry Hitt, in Louisville, is the agency associate
of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company, having been with this
company for 16 years this. June. The
first time I was in Henry’s room at Wash-
ington and Lee was a few days after we
got there. He mentioned that his father
was in the Insurance business, and at the

 

same time unpacked a dozen Manhattan
shirts that he had just bought. I almost
took up insurance myself, feeling that it
must be a great. business. As far as 1

OO ge
ing Washington and Lee and received de- wea eee know Henry will have the honor of hav-
. . ete a SSS—___. . .
grees from both of them. Bill is now sales iis — ing the first son to enter Washington

manager for the Peavy-Moore Lumber
Company, Inc., of Shreveport, Louisiana, and Dewey-

ville, Texas.

Francis PLowMAN wrote after an extended three
weeks trip which brought him as far south as Memphis.
He still resides in Wallingford, Pennsylvania.

NorFLeet TURNER, another outstanding class mem-
ber, has made his mark as executive vice-president of the
First National Bank of Memphis. He has a fine family
and is always interested in the alumni meetings. The
article about him in the Alumni Magazine was excellent.

1925
By Bruce Gannoway, Class Agent

Ep RierzE has the Rietze Distributing Company,
Louisville, Ky, wholesale distributors of Hotpoint Flec-
trical Appliances. His only complaint is that he has
trouble getting sufficient merchandise to take care of his
needs. That’s good news, Eid, and it’s also good news to
know that you and your wife have two children to add
happiness to your home. It will be good to see you when
you come down on that trip.

ALLAN SLOAN says that nothing important has hap-
pened to him during the past year other than that his

Se
=

"= and Lee trom our class; for he now dias a
boy 14. His daughter will soon be 13, and is heading for
Sweet Briar when the time comes. When Henry returned
to Washington and Lee he got the same shock I ex-
perienced when I took my wife to show her those hal-
lowed halls. They’re beautiful, and safe, but you kind of
miss the old worn stairs, the wide boards, and the initialed
desks. The Louisville Alumni Association is very active,
and had thirty boys at Washington and Lee this year.

Tom Lyte, living in Gary, Indiana, is the Chicago
District Supervisor of the Factory Stores Company. He
writes, “My company is in the Industrial Feeding busi-
ness, serving the employees and executives of the steel
mills. We have 23 stores here in the Chicago District.”
Tom has lived in Gary for five years, and has two chil-

dren: Ann, 12 and a tow-headed son, 5.

Bo McMItLtan is in the ice and coal business in Ath-
ens, Tennessee, as well as agent for a motor transporta-
He and Mrs. McMillan have lived in

Athens for 12 years, and have a boy, 11; and a zitl, 9.

tion company.

Besides his regular work, Bo is president of the Kiwanis,
county chairman of Christmas Seal Sales, and chairman
of the Finance Committee of the Red Cross. Add to that
his membership in the high school athletic council, and

[ 21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

being an elder and treasurer of the Presbyterian Church,
and Bo is a busy man.

1927

Preston Moore is teaching in the department of
history and political science at The Citadel, Charleston,
South Carolina.

LutHER MacKinnon is with the MacKinnon Hard-
wood Company, Greenville, Alabama.

LutuHER H. Repcay has, for the past three years,
been executive director of the Snyder County Board of
Assistance, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania. This is a civil
service position responsible for administer-
ing all types of public assistance in the
county for the department of Public As-
sistance in Pennsylvania. He is married
and has two daughters aged ten and seven.

1928

CuHarLes EF. BRANHAM is manager of
the Richmond, Virginia, office of Sawyer,
Ferguson, Walker Company, Newspapers
Publishers’ Representatives with offices in
New York, Chicago, Detroit and Atlanta.
Prior to this association he was with the
Times-Dispatch in Richmond as National
Advertising and Promotion Manager.

 

 

 

 

 

Harry B. NEEL, after finishing his work at the Mayo
Clinic, went to Albert Lea, Minnesota, where he has
successfully practiced surgery with a small group of as-
—sociates. However, he expected to be called to active duty
with the army. He has a small son, Harry Bryan, III.

PauLt E. DAUGHERTY 1s practicing law in Houston,
Texas, with offices in the Esperson Building, specializing
in oil and land matters.

1929

ARNOLD SCHLOSSBERG, writing in April, says: “After
practicing law in New York these past eight years, I have
arranged to return to my old home town, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, where I hope to hang out my shingle. Am looking
forward to being near Washington and Lee and all my
old friends.”’

ALLEN MorcGan is vice-president of The First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis, ‘Tennessee. He was married last
spring to Miss Elsie Wetter of Memphis and they spent
their honeymoon in Jamaica and Havana.

A. L. McCarbELt is a national bank examiner. His
address is 407 Federal Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

 

CaanaticRaeeets

. H. Outp is vice-president of The First Nationa]
xchange Bank of Roanoke, Virginia. He is married and
has two children. He is president of the local alumnj
chapter.

1930

H. GrauAm Mortson is with the firm of Willkie,
Owen, Otis and Bailly, 15 Broad Street, New York. He
is the Washington representative of this firm and spends
a part of every week there, making his office at the May-
flower. He is still a bachelor.

C. E. KENNEMER, JR., is a member of the firm of
Kennemer and Armstrong, Attorneys-at-Law, Dallas,
Texas, with offices in the Republic Bank
Building. In 1937 he married Lucile Chris-
tian, a graduate of Texas Women’s Col-
lege. He lives out of Dallas and commutes
daily.

Lance F. Hoiianp is practicing in-
ternal medicine and allergy, 301 West
Fighth Street, Austin, Texas.

Tuomas D. SHUMATE is a member of
the law firm of Shumate and Shumate,
Irvine, Kentucky. He is married and has
two children, one seven and one two.

W. A. (“Bitz”) Warp, Jr., is a meme
ber of the law firm of Woodruff and Ward,
Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia, his partner being
Biuce VWogdrul, A.B. 16 LAB. 2b

Dr. Grorce B. CrappocKk has been practicing in-
ternal medicine in Lynchburg since September, 1940.

1931
JOHN SCHLOSSBERG “‘is in the army now.”
PauL Douctass has joined the ranks of the retired

cattlemen and is selling insurance in Okmulgee, Okla-
homa. His offices are in the Commerce Building.

ELBERT ERNEST HAtt is still in the general insurance
business. He has a five-year-old daughter, Carol. He says
he is flying a lot, working hard.

B. EK. Parker, JR., is connected with the Parker Pea-
nut Company, Suffolk, Virginia.

1952
By Leicuton McKinney, Class Agent, 1940-41

R. O. (“Dick”) ParMELEE, Huntington, West Vir-
ginia—Manager Hotel Governor Cabell; active Chamber

| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of Commerce, Red Cross; 18 months old son; says Joe
McVay is happiest married man he ever knew.

W. L. Teprorp, Little Rock, Arkansas—In tire and
gasoline business; married; two year old son; sells boats
and outboard motors on side.

Don C. THompson, Cambridge, Massachusetts (and
Canal Point, Florida)—vTeaching at Harvard last three
years, to get Ph.D. this year; still bachelor; has reserve
commission and expects to get called for army any day.

RAN SHIELDS, Jr., King County Hospital, Brooklyn—
Just completed resident surgical at Kings County Hos-
pital and will be at the Bellevue Hospital in New York
City for next six months; hopes to
return to China next summer, depend-
ing on war conditions.

Ep ToNnsMEIRE, JR., Biloxi, Missis-
sippi—Practicing law; bachelor; look-
ing forward to army life in the near
future.

SHERWOOD W. Wisk, Jackson,
Mississippi—Law firm of Ricketts and
Wise; two-year-old daughter and 7
weeks old son; went through Lexing-
ton last summer.

1933

IRVING BRICKEN is a member of the firm of Bricken
Brothers, Incorporated, Real Estate, 565 Fifth Avenue,
New York. He has attended several of the functions of
the New York Alumni Association during the past year
and reports a fine, active association.

S. M. (“Cy”) PaInTER is teaching in Bedford, Vir-
ginia. He recently became associated with a new enter-
prise, Carlyle Dairies, Incorporated. Will give full time
to this in the vacation period but only part during school
term.

Haro_p ABRAMSON lives at the Commander Hotel,
Cambridge, Massaciusetts. He is married and has a son
two years old.

Neb Brent is president of Brent and Company, Field
Seed, Wool, Grain, Paris, Kentucky.

Joun A. WomeEvpvorr has been pastor of the Presby-
terian churches at Richlands and Cedar Bluff, Virginia
since November, 1940. Prior to that time he was pastor
of the Presbyterian Church at Appalachia, Virginia.

ALLEN SYMONDS says he is busy trying to keep his
customers happy with slow deliveries, rising prices, etc.,

ect., and finding time to play with his new son (February
4th )—Washington and Lee about ’63.

H. M. Banpy, Jr., is practicing law with the firm of
Bandy and Bandy, First National Bank Building, Nor-
ton, Virginia.

BERNARD Davis is practicing law in Shelbyville, Ken-
tucky, with offices in the Bank of Shelbyville Building.

1934

A. B. ForEHAND is working in the Railway Mail
Service stationed in Richmond, Virginia. He still has the
same wife and two kids, reported in former notes, and
his address is Stop 9, Petersburg Pike,
Richmond, Virginia.

  
 
   
 

Dan STARTSMAN has been work-
ing in various capacities for the past

five years with the Wm. Glenny Glass

 

’
sy,

a

‘

are Company in Cincinnati, Ohio. His
home is in Terrace Park, Ohio.
‘
% JouNn DeExterhas been in the news-

x . . 7
x paper business since leaving school. He
-; ; ; es
is now editor-advertising manager of
the Fairview Republican,

Oklahoma. Still unmarried.

Fairview,

: RuckE DEVAN, JR., is president and
treasurer of DeVan and Company, Insurance, Union
Building, Charleston, West Virginia. He has been mar-
ried about a year.

Tnomas D. AnrErson, having served as class agent,
is sympathetic and cooperative. He is practicing law in
Flouston, Texas. He is doing work mainly for the RFC

and its subsidiaries. His address is 2228 Gulf Building,
Houston, Texas.

1935

Gus MorcGaAn is in the army.

Bitty Dices, after working in New York for about
three years with Stone and Webster, Incorporated, is
back in the investment business in St. Louis, with E. E.
Haverstick and Company, 346 North Boyle Avenue. He
is a member of the Ist Missouri Reserve Infantry.

GEORGE GLYNN 1s traveling the southwest selling
hosiery. He has been married for four years, and his
address is 83 Park Terrace, New York.

ALLEN M. HARRELSON, JR., 1s now associated with
Haskins and Sells, Certified Public Accounts in Cincin-
nati, Ohio. He recently passed the C. P. A examinations

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of the State of Ohio. He is living-at the 1. B. Harrison
Club in Cincinnati, but asks us to keep his address at his
home, 232 S. Short’ Street, Troy, Ohio, as he is m.and
out of Cincinnati.

1937

Fielden Woodward was a visitor to the campus late
in the summer. He is class agent for °37-L,.

STANLEY HiccIns, Jr., is married and living in Oak
Hill, West Virginia, but practicing law with the firm of
Mahan, Bacon and White, Fayetteville, West Virginia.

Jok ARNOLD is a ‘ember of the law firm of Allen,

minion Paper Company, wholesale paper and stationery,
Norfolk, Virginia.

Ricwarp F. (“Dick”) Horprn, of Charleston, West
Virginia, expected to be with the Mellon Institute of In-
dustrial Research in Pittsburgh after July 1st.

JAMES PATTERSON (‘‘Jim’”’) RocErs,
was in Parks Air College, East St. Louis, Illinois, and
hoped to get his commission in the fall. He reported that
of less than two hundred cadets in the College, Wash-
ington and Lee was represented by Larry Burnett in the
advanced class, and Hunt Collins and himself in the

in’ April lase

Duncan, Duncan and Arnold, First Na- As under class.
tional Bank and Trust Company Build- ae hy, @ Poink Boe fe schol
: yD) conte RAN ONNER is_ helping
ing, Lexington, Kentucky. Sgt Oe Lb : ;

8 S y #6. ee hagas | A build “subs” on a twenty-four basis, at

J. Apprncton . WAGNER. was ap- an Se “eg ) a New London, Connecticut. His address
pointed assistant attorney general of the AMT Pas nS is 36 Parkway.
. . ‘ SS ES V ‘

State of Michigan about the ae the | i AES ican Lee Daye A a
year. Byron Ballard, L.L.B., ‘12, is legal HH ‘ ~ United. States army. His home is i#

adviser to the Governor of Michigan.

C. Arno_tp Marruews has received
his Ph.D. from West Virginia Univer-
sity, and is now an Ensign in the Sup-
ply Corps, United States Naval Reserve
atid fs in the’ Supply Carpe Training
School, Graduate School of Business Administration,
Boston, Massachusetts. 7

Amos BoteN 1s still practicing law in Huntington,
West Virginia, with the firm of Fitzpatrick, Brown and
Davis.

1938

SAM McCueEsneEy was with the Gardner Advertis-
ing Company, Mart Building, St. Louis, Missouri, but
expected to be in the service within a short time. His St.
Louis address is 35 Hillvale Drive, Clayton, St. Louis.

WeEsLEY HEATH is now with the Pet Milk Sales
Corporation and lives at 1136 Liberty Road, Lexington,
Kentucky.

FreD E. Warers, JR., is assistant purchasing agent
for the Armour Fertilizer Works in Atlanta, Georgia.
His address is 619 Linwood Avenue, Atlanta, Georgia.

BILL KARRAKER is now flying for Pan American Air
Lines, and is located, at Coconut Grove, Florida.

1939

J. WARREN WHITE, JR., is secretary of the Old Do-

|

 

=E:
ty -

Winchester, Kentucky.

Tuomas W. CuristopHer has been
ae in a grammar school in Union,
South Carolina, since graduation.

WILLIAM GARDNER DErR is now a
research fellow in the department of radiology, School
of Medicine, University of Rochester.

Jim ‘Tass is in the Air Corps.

1940

ANDREW DoucLas JAMIESON, JR., entered the army
July 14, 1941, after taking his M. S. in journalism at
Columbia.

CHARLES BELL Lewis, Jr., is in the Marine Corps.
His home address is Lewis and B. Streets, St. Albans,
West Virginia.

WiLt1AM PARKER NEAL is starting his second year
at General Theological Seminary. His address is 280
Burns Street, Forest Hills, New York.

IvarRL Morcan, Jr., says he is still plugging along in
New York with Crowell-Collier. His address is 144-32
35th Avenue, Flushing, New York.

Curtiss TottEy Mon?TcomMEry was married to Miss
Harriet Covington of Buena Vista, Virginia, on Septem-
ber 26, 1941, and is now employed as inspector with the
Glenn L. Martin Company of Baltimore, Maryland. His
residence is 3320 Rueckert Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Epwin Henry MILLER is now in his second year in
the University of Maryland Law School at night. He ex-
pects to be called the first of the year for Ensign training
in the Naval Reserves. His home address is 207 W. Irvin
Avenue, Hagerstown, Maryland.

JAMmEs S. HI is now in the Seed and Grocery busi-
ness with his brother in Covington, Kentucky. He ex-
pects to finish his law studies at the Y. M.C. A. Night
School, Cincinnati, Ohio. His address is Box 104, Dixie

Highway, Covington, Kentucky.

Tromas Hoyt McCurcuHeEon is with the New Eng-
land Confectionery Company, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
His home address is 29 Gammons Road,
Waban, Massachusetts.

  

Y/
7

 

: Ke os
EucENE Monrok KRAMER has been in yy axe (nee
the United States Army since March 19, i ei

1941. His residence address is 18 Lexing- . y
ton Avenue, New York City.

PF shh, —
Vf ste
iting

‘i iii Le aT ER Ta
SSS SS See

 

eM

JosEpH HUNTER is now working in the
Engineering Change Department, of the
Plane Turret Division of the Emerson
Electric Company of St. Louis. His residence address
is 7343 Westmoreland Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

 

 

 

Joun WitiiaAm JOHNSTON is in the United States
Army Air Corps Training Detachment. His home ad-
dress is Route 6, Lexington, Virginia.

JeromME ALtFrED HELDMAN was inducted into the
United States Army on October 22, 1941. His perman-
ent address is 626 Gholson Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Joun Goopwin Atnutt is teaching at St. Paul’s
School for Boys, Baltimore, Maryland. His residence
address is 5600 Wexford Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

GrEorGE Horner MELVILLE, JR., is on active duty
with the United States Navy. His home address is 24
Melrose Drive, New Rochelle, New York.

1941

JeromME Gre Hoviincs is working with the Garden
National Bank, Garden City, Kansas. His home address
is 5620 State Line, Kansas City, Missouri.

ALEXANDER BRATHENAHL is with the duPont Com-
pany, at Belle, West Virginia. His residence address is
1556 Kanawha Boulevard, Charleston, West Virginia.

Rosert Harpinc ADAMS is a chemist with the Tro-
jan Power Company, Bethlehem, Penna. He expected to

ge

 

 

MMM eT

 

all! = LNW WN
=F oe =

be transferred to Sandusky, Ohio within a short time.
His home address is 5301 Bosworth Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland.

EDWARD Harrison TRICE, JR., is employed in labora-
tory of the International Paper Company, awaiting call

to join the naval flying cadets. His permanent address is
3039 Glen Street, Glens Falls, New York.

Wittiam LERoy SCHULTHEIS was drafted into the
United States Army on September 12th. His home ad-
dress is Bethesda, Maryland.

CreciL Woop Tay_or is practicing law in Lynchburg,
Virginia, with the firm of Edmunds,
Le S Whitehead, Baldwin and Graves. He was
a ed Me, married last September to Miss Lida Belle
LS AY ‘
Goyed of Memphis, Tennessee.

, ~BayARD. STUYVESANT BERGHAUS was

Sa = teaching at St. Paul’s Boys’ School in

“ Baltimore, prior to going on duty in March
s a reserve Marine, 2nd Lieutenant.

       

JosEpH TALLIAFERRO LykEs, Jr., has
been commissioned an ensign in the United States Naval
Reserve. He says H. B. McLaughlin, ’40, was high man
in his class of 465.

WiLtLiAM LEE SHANNON was married to Miss Vir-
ginia R. Tichenor of Shelbyville, Kentucky on June 7,
1941, in the Robert F,. Lee Memorial Church on the
campus. His address is Box 510, Shelbyville, Kentucky.

1942

James Myers SHOOK is with Cameron Engineering
Department, Ingersoll-Rand Co., Phillipsburg, New Jer-
sey. His home address is 4th Street, Morris Park,
Phillipsburg, New Jersey.

Howarp W. Witson is working at the St. Louis
Aircraft Corporation in St. Louis as assistant chief in-
spector in airplane construction. His address is 5359 F.
Gladstone Place, Lucas and Hunt Village, Normandy,
Missouri (St. Louis County).

Lorentz T. WHITE, JR., is with Motor Bearings and
Parts Company, S. Salisbury, Raleigh, North Carolina.
His residence address is 404 Whitaker Mull Road,
Raleigh, North Carolina.

Gorpon JAY WEIL, JR., is assistant purchasing agent
of Huylers. His home address is 54 Jefferson Street,
White Plains, New York.

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

; ORDER FORM

T eMCIOse nad ioc for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepad by arrangement.

One Complete set of eight plates [| (or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS a |

i wreasiingeon. College... ....:... Eo ). Cagnecie Library 7.0 ae oe Ba
ee NCL da ho ie] 6. Doremus Gymnasium 3's. 244; eam
Oo. eer-rackson Home: o.3)......2 0.26 fe] fo Yueker aly ooo ee co
4a moe Wealk: 358 a Os [ea 8. Washington College, 1857.......... ae
Check color choice: [ ] Blue La taeeen [ ] Mulberry
Ship plates to:
ast a Se
exddress. i: ...,. Ty ee a a Sis he

Coe ee eee ere ser ese ress sceresreseresr eters ee seseeeeeseesesessesrsesee ee eeeeeeeFereseeeseeeZ eerste eeeeeeeeesrereoesreseeeeereeeeereee |

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

