+

 

Alumni M agaz

The

Wash

 

 

ss

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ington and Lee U

(i

1T1le

niversi

 

>
—
oo a
*
e k : a |
* oe
™ 6
Re
Sal
. ad =
nme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Homecoming

OCTOBER 25

Re

Davidson College

VS.

Washington and Lee
at 11:00 a. m.

Virginia vs. V. M. I. at 3:00 p. m.
Both Games on Wilson Field

Homecoming

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap,
Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia,
34 Peachtree

Baltimore—Louis L. Tignor, '32, Maryland
Trust Building

Birmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee Kenna, ‘40,
501 Swarthmore

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J. W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, '38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘'25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C,. T. Dawkins, ‘09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Mimai, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, ‘°33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—John 8S. Caskie, '25, Caskie Paper
Company

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, ‘31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., '41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, ‘37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, ‘15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—William B. Bagby, WDBJ

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, ‘21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D.C.—Randolph D. Rouse, ‘39,
Valley Vista Apts., Belmont Road, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1947 No. 4

 

TUR Sik oS Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PO a sack.... ae Leon W. Harris, 1915
Vice-President..................00.. L. W. Witrson, 1910
Secretary......cccccce. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TOASUTET ...o.....cccceseccccce: WarrEN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Leon W. Harris, 1915
Amos A. Boten, 1937

LAURENCE W. WItson, 1910

Henry P. Jonnston, 1929

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911

WarrEN E. Titson, 1926

THE FRONT COVER

Is there any wonder that statistics show that married col-
legians are more regular in class attendance than unmarried
students? Unlike the “good old days” when a class cut was
just a ticklish matter to be explained to the registrar, now it’s
a major domestic issue. Wives operate effectively around the
Washington and Lee campus as “truant officers,” and, as
illustrated on this month’s cover page, playing hookey
ain’t what it used to be.

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Mindtul of the Future

The Bicentennial is the most important and significant
event in the current history of your University.

* Kk K K *

We are making plans to celebrate it in a manner that
will react to the credit of the University, at the same
time signalizing the tremendous importance of this date
and event.

* Kk KX *

Only six other institutions of higher learning in the
nation can claim so long a history, and none can claim a
more impressive one, either by virtue of the names asso-
ciated with it or the achievements of its graduates.

* KK *K *

We are not only celebrating our 200th anniversary.
That, by itself, would be vanity. We are planning to go
forward into the third century in a position to adapt our
methods and techniques to the future, at the same time
retaining the ideals and purposes which have governed
us in the past.

a a

The creed which is written beneath our crest—‘non
in cautus futuri’”—is capable of several interpretations.
At this fateful moment in our history, I am inclined to-
ward one which goes rather beyond the mere literal trans-
lation of the Latin to express what might be the watch-
word of the coming years: “Proud of our past, yet mind-
ful of the future.”

eres

Recently we mailed you a copy of Toward Our Third
Century, printed in connection with the Bicentennial
Fund campaign. In this booklet we made a sincere effort
to include other matters—a suggestion of our long his-
tory, an interpretation of what we are trying to do now
and hope to do later, and something I might term our
“confession of faith.”

kK OK OK Ok

The Fund campaign is going forward successfully en-

September 18, 1947

tirely because of the interest and the devotion of the
alumni who are taking the major part of its responsi-
bility. They are giving without stint of time and effort,
to the disadvantage—I sometimes suspect when I see the
effectiveness of their work—of personal business in-
terests.

* Ke K K *

The necessity of every institution on a collegiate level
to seek private support to carry on its program has long
been recognized, and is being exhibited especially this
year by a multiplicity of campaigns for finances. This
should be, and is, I am sure, a challenge to Washington
and Lee alumni to accomplish as much as our sister in-
stitutions, and more.

* KK K *

I know,-and you will find as you come in contact with
those whose unsuspected interest in Washington and Lee
surprises you, that our University has a following that
extends far beyond the ranks of its alumni. It was one
of these friends of long standing who recently replied to
my letter of acknowledgement of his endowment of a
memorial scholarship with these words:

“You don’t have to thank me, Dr. Gaines, for I don’t
look upon it as a contribution or a gift, but an everlasting
investment that neither biting rains nor raging storms
can destroy... This investment comes from a grateful
heart and I bide as time goes on these dollars in this
everlasting bank will pay this nation great dividends.”

x* * * *k
With such demonstrations of trust to encourage us,
Washington and Lee dares not evade the compulsion to

prepare adequately for service in the future.

ee, ee
Because of such expressions of faith and because of

the community of interest and devotion of the whole
body of our alumni and friends, I know that we cannot

fail.

President

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Mrs. Du Pont First Woman Honoree

Washington and Lee University ended its 198th session on
Friday, June 6, with commencement exercises in Lee Chapel,
when four honorary degrees were conferred and one of the
university’s smallest peacetime graduating classes numbering
only 91 received diplomas. The majority of the graduates
were veterans.

Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, of the United States, was
awarded the doctor of laws degree; Dr. Thomas Perkins
Abernethy, chairman of the department of graduate study in
history at the University of Virginia, received the degree of
doctor of letters, and the degree of doctor of divinity went to
two ministers, the Rev. L. Valentine Lee, rector of the Church
of the Good Shepherd, Jacksonville, Florida; and the Rev.
Russell Stroup, pastor of the First Presbyterian church of
Lynchburg. Dr. Stroup delivered the Baccalaureate sermon
at Virginia Military Institute the previous Sunday.

Mrs. Alfred I. duPont was escorted from the audience
and awarded the degree of doctor of humane létters. The
degree conferred upon Mrs. duPont was the first degree of
any nature ever awarded a woman by the university and
the award was made without previous announcement of the
action. She has for many years been one of the university’s
most devoted benefactors, and a patron of education in many
of its phases.

None of the five recipients are Washington and Lee
alumni, although Justice Vinson and Dr. Lee have sons at-
tending school here. Only two other honorary degrees have
been conferred by the school during the last five years.

While the number of 1947 graduates, most of whom were
interrupted in their studies by war service, is abnormally
small for a peace-time group, the class will later be aug-
mented by 55 candidates for degrees who expect to complete
academic work in summer school.

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of the university, paid
particular tribute to John Graham, whose recent death, he
said, was a great loss to the university. He commented upon
the fact that although Mr. Graham will be greatly missed
at all times he will be especially remembered at the com-
mencement exercises, which he had directed. Dr. Gaines
also expressed gratitude and praise for the services of Dr.
Livingston W. Smith, the Society of the Cincinnati professor
of Mathematics who is retiring after having been on the
faculty since 1906.

Rodney Mims Cook, of Georgia, who is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and who graduated summa cum laude, delivered
the valedictory address, in which he remarked especially on
the gratitude his class feels for the high standards and ideals
which life at Washington and Lee had given them.

Following a long standing custom, the commencement ad-
dress was made by Dr. Gaines, who spoke on “Education,
the Committal of a Trust.” Dr. Gaines remarked that the
only criterion of a university is the kind of men it sends into
the world. He expressed the hope that Washington and Lee
has provided to its graduates basic knowledge by its tradi-
tions, the transferable qualities of self-respect, gentleness,
courtesy, kindness and honor.

“The supreme tradition of this University is inherent in
Lee, not the soldier and not even the educator but the Lee
of a memorable decision.” Following defeat he faced all

 

Chief Justice Vincent leads applause as Mrs. Alfred I. duPont
receives honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters

 

roads of a possible future, the road of ease, the road of ¢on-
genial circumstance, the road of personal profit; but he
placed his life in the path of the largest influence, Dr. Gaines
said. He stated that he hopes all Washington and Lee men
will think of Lee when they are faced with making decisions.
“The problem of our country’s destiny today is not whether
we shall have enough trained personalities, powerful for per-
formance.... The desperate question is whether those per-
sonalities will confess their social obligations and discharge
faithfully their social responsibility.”

Among the outstanding awards made during the day’s ex-
ercises was the first annual presentation of the John W.
Davis Prize, announced for the first time on that day and
given to John Lloyd Dorsey, Jr., of Henderson, Kentucky,
who was among those receiving the Bachelor of Laws degree.
Established by a group of 35 of the leading jurists of New
York state in honor of Mr. Davis, class of 1892, former Am-
bassador to Great Britain and democratic presidential nominee
of 1924, the prize went to Dorsey “for general excellence
throughout the entire law course.” The prize this year was
in the form of $200.00 cash, but is expected to take another
form in subsequent awards. Mr. Davis is general chairman of
the university’s forthcoming Bicentennial program to be
celebrated in 1948-1949,

 

CREDIT FOR PICTURES IN MAY ISSUE

The May issue of the Alumni Magazine carried two full
pages of pictures, one depicting “A Day With a Veteran Stu-
dent’s Wife,” the other, “A Day With a Fraternity House
Mother.” These were pictures produced for the Journalism
course in news photography, the former by John M. Moore,
the latter by William M. Barnard. Credit for this work was
not given in the May issue.

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Host to Seniors

The “baby” of the alumni family—Old ’47—was christened,
then acclaimed the “most glamourous class in all W. and L.
history” as student-alumni relations reached a post-war zenith
on May 14.

The occasion was revival of the annual senior banquet
given by the alumni association, the first in five years, and
the title conferred was suggested by no less an authority
on glamour than Prexy F. P. Gaines who offers as evidence
the photographs reproduced at the bottom of this page.

It was a delightful affair which brought the wives of
seniors (and, incidentally, the seniors) into the new banquet
auditorium of the Natural Bridge Hotel where the Bridge
caterers spread the tremendous buffet supper that was rated
“no less than terrific’ by the gals and gourmets of 47.

In an informal after-dinner talk, Dr. Gaines welcomed
the distaff side of the class “not only because they have added
glamour to this occasion, but because many of the men
wouldn't be here if their girls hadn’t first prepared their
homework for them.” He greeted the wives as “honorary
forty-seveners,” and then proceeded seriously to express
his foremost “hopes” for the new alumni group, many of

| WASHINGTON

Pte

 

whom were transplanted by the exigencies of war from classes
graduated several years earlier.

Sut what the prexy did not know was that the atten-
dance of the wives, while fully worth any price to have them
present, had posed a problem wholly unique in Alumni Of-
fice annals. When some of the seniors declared their inten-
tions of attending the banquet “only if we can find a baby-
sitter,” the A.O. opened a brand new service to students. Not
exactly anxious to have the banquet changed into a child-
care clinic, the A.O. went to work on the problem. As Cy
Young later explained, “By golly, we got the baby-sitters,
the girls got to the banquet, and everyone had more fun be-
cause they did.”

Following dinner music by the Southern Collegians, aug-
mented by a pianist from the V. M. I. Keydet orchestra who
said that he, too, had “a whale of a time,” the men of ’47
heard Cy Young outline the pattern of alumni association or-
ganization, the class agent plan, and other methodology of
alumni operations through which the association and the
member may mutually serve each other.

Dick Heard, of Danville, one of the three senior class
presidents, made a stirring response to Dr. Gaines’ talk, say-
ing that the class of 1947, most of its members interrupted
in their undergraduate work by war service, now was more
than ready to “fall in line.”

Col. Milton B. Rogers, ’17 Bicentennial director, and Dean
L.. J. Desha, 06, also made brief talks to the class.

 

ALUMNI SMOKER HELD IN CHARLESTON, W. VA.

Washington and Lee University alumni held a smoker in
June at the Daniel Boone hotel and elected Lee M. Kenna
to succeed W. Goodridge Sale, Jr., as president. Tom W.
Moses was elected vice-president and Frank R. Bell, Jr., sec-
retary. The seven new directors are Mr. Sale, Kelley E. Reed,
Jr., J. Kay Thomas, D. Boone Dawson, Zeb H. Herndon,
srown Truslow and Joe Blackburn.

[7 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting

JUNE 5, 1947

 

Alumni President Kirkpatrick, 13 and Secretary Cy Young,
17, flank Sam Williams, °14, recipient of
Thomas Nelson Page Alumni Award

 

1. The meeting was called to order by Alumni President,
Thomas S. Kirkpatrick. On motion, the reading of the min-
utes of the last meeting was dispensed with.

99

2. Dr. Gaines, in welcoming the “returnees,” emphasized
that the year just past would go down in history as one of
the most fantastic years in Washington and Lee history, and
one of the best—with more students than ever dreamed of
and under extraordinary conditions, and with twenty-one
new members added to the faculty in the 1946-1947 session,
However, Dr. Gaines was eager to assure the alumni that the
increasing enrollment of students has not been the occasion of
mutation of Washington and Lee traditions—one of the
University’s unique contributions to the world.

The Thomas Nelson Page award is annually a highlight
of the general meeting. Dr. Gaines in presenting the 1947
Thomas Nelson Page award to Samuel Haines Williams,
Class of 1914, described him as “an alumnus whose character

expresses beautifully the high ideals of kindness and faith
and honor for which this institution stands; whose capacity
for leadership and acceptance of responsibility have brought
him into manifold and unique usefulness in his state; whose
loyalty to his Alma Mater, never faltering, has found varied
and influential forms of service.”

3. Mr. Kirkpatrick made the annual report of the presi-
dent which was a detailed account of the report of the Uni-
versity Affairs Committee and the action taken by the Alumni
soard. (See minutes of Alumni Board meeting of October
25, 1946).

4. The report of the treasurer, Dr. Reid White, was read
by H. K. Young. This report appeared in the February issue
of The Alumni Magazine which was sent to all alumni. On
motion duly made, seconded, and carried, this report was ac-
cepted.

5. (Report of the Secretary, H. K. Young, will be found
on page 10).

6. Report of the Nominating Committee to fill the va-
cancies occurring on the Alumni Board of Trustees this year:
Dr. Reid White and P. C. (Bunny) Whitlock, whose terms
have expired. (Mr. John W. Drye, who served one term as
a past president of the Alumni Association, is also a retir-
ing member of the Board). The Nominating Committee, com-
posed of Messrs. J. P. Hendon of Birmingham, R. P. DeVan
of Charleston, West Virginia; and Frank Bready of New
York City, named the following men as their candidates to fill
the offices left vacant by Messrs. Reid White and P. C.
Whitlock:

Frederick S. Johnson, ’11—Wilmington, Delaware
Warren E. (Tex) Tilson, ’26—Lexington, Virginia

There were no nominations from the floor and upon motion

 

 

- on - _— cena — om a er
a . re ae ae

Dr. Livingston W. Smith, ’96, retiring head of
Math Department, and some of his “boys.”

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Overflow “Chow” line at Alumni Luncheon

 

duly made and carried these two men were elected to the
Alumni Board of Trustees.

7. A number of resolutions were presented:

(a) Mr. William Cox read the following tribute to the late
John Alexander Graham, ’14, Professor of Modern Languages:

Alumni returning to their Alma Mater have learned with
deep sorrow of the recent passing of John Alexander Gra-
ham, class of 14, a descendant of the founder and first presi-
dent of our institution, distinguished teacher of modern
languages and music, eminent writer and composer of music,
untiring in his interest and effort for the promotion of worth
while activities at the university he loved and served so well.

A native of Lexington and son of a long line of ancestors
whose names are enrolled at Washington and Lee, as stu-
dent and later as teacher he gave his many talents without
reserve, in directing the musical and dramatic organizations
of the campus, in planning many of its social functions, in
composing spirited music for its teams and dramatic per-
formances, in designing and obtaining the Washington and
Lee commemorative plates, and in a variety of other ways
expressing his unfailing devotion to his school; but all this
he brought to his primary task, sincere and inspiring teach-
ing and the gifts of superior intellect with which he was so
richly endowed.

It is but a small recognition of the unusual contributions
of service and personality given by John Graham to Wash-
ington and Lee that his fellow alumni pause in silent tribute
to the memory of this devoted and loyal son of his Alma
Mater.

(b) Mr. Robert Carr read an appreciation of the 25 years
of service of Cap’n Dick Smith, ’13, to the University:

As Washington and Lee approaches the celebration of its
two hundredth anniversary, another event has occurred which
deserves to be noted in its annals, marking the completion
of twenty five years of loyal and effective service rendered by
Captain Dick Smith as director of intercollegiate athletics.

To countless students and alumni, Cap’n Dick is as
much a part of the Washington and Lee scene as the statue
of George Washington on the main building. Both are ever
present and ever vigilant when the honor and welfare of
Washington and Lee are at stake; but there the physical re-
semblance ends, for unlike a silent and immovable statue,
Cap’n Dick is never still, but has labored endlessly and un-

tiringly for the welfare of the university, its teams, players,
students and alumni.

The embodiment of good fellowship, the soul of good
sportsmanship, loved and admired by his friends, liked and
respected by his opponents, he has done more than any
other to bring to this campus, keen competition, a high type
of sportsmanship, and numberless victories snatched from
defeat.

As tangible evidence of our appreciation, we deem it fit-
ting and proper that the newly constructed baseball field
near Liberty Hall, be hereafter named “Dick Smith Field,”
and we respectfully request this designation be confirmed by
the university.

We rise in tribute to the grand old man of W. and L.
sports, and wish for him many more years of happiness and
useful service.

(c) Mr. H. K. Young read two resolutions in appreciation
of the services rendered by Milton B. Rogers, ’17, and Allen
T. Snyder, ’39, in connection with the Bicentennial Campaign.
(See minutes of Alumni Board meeting of June 5, 1947).

8. Mr. F. J. Gilliam spoke briefly with regard to the 30th
reunion of the Class of 1917 and listed the schedule of events
in which that Class would participate during Finals.

9. Mr. William Hinton, Assistant Professor of Education
and Psychology, gave a report on the Counseling and Place-

 

 

Colonel Elijah Funkhouser, ’93, greets Jack Roehl, ’47

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

ment Service recently established in line with constructive
suggestions from the University Affairs Committee of the
Alumni Association and representatives of the student body.
(The work of this counseling and placement service will be
to integrate and supplement existing efforts and to provide a
continuing source of additional information and assistance
tor students, alumni, administration and faculty. The initial
emphasis will be placed on making available to the men now
in college information which should assist them in their
search for employment. As soon as possible a systematic
canvass of alumni needs will be made.)

10. On motion the meeting adjourned at 2:40 p.m.

Secretary's Report

After 17 years as your secretary I feel certain the past year
has been the busiest one the Alumni Office has ever had. This
can be accounted for by the many readjustments incident to
reconversion from war conditions and in our cooperation with
the Bicentennial office in launching their campaign fund. In
this undertaking approximately 60,000 pieces of literature
have been addressed from the alumni files. In addition many
hours have been spent with the Director and Associate-Di-
rector in going over lists of alumni for selection of key men
in the state and local communities.

* * kK *K *

As all of you know, the opening of the fall session saw
the largest student body in Washington and Lee’s history.
Included in this number were approximately 450 of our own
boys who had been carried on our files as alumni during the
war years. It took many long hours of work in our office to
readjust them from alumni to student status.

Of great interest to the Alumni Office, and I am sure to
you, is the fact that this year there have been 138 sons of
alumni in the student-body. This is by far the largest number
we have ever had.

The past session was the first since the spring of 1943
that we have been fully represented in intercollegiate athletics.
This made it possible for us to have our first Homecoming
since the fall of 1942. Other than the results of the football
game, this event was most successful. It was perhaps the

largest gathering of alumni ever held on the campus. Lunch-
eon was served at the Student Union Building prior to the

game.
x* kK kK *k *

The year has seen much activity among our local chapters.
Approximately 30 meetings have been held at most of which
a representative of the University has been present. Several
of our chapters have entertained local boys returning home
for the holidays as well as prospective students. We recom-
mend this as a most beneficial activity and it is suggested that
other chapters might adopt this policy.

The activity among our local chapters is evidenced by the
many students now in school from alumni centers such as
Charleston, West Virginia, from which city there are now
40 boys in the student-body. Also the chapters have been
most helpful and cooperative in connection with the organiza-
tion of local representatives for the Bicentennial fund.

x* * kK Kk *

Last year at this time I reported to you that a sound-
colored motion picture would be made of the University. |
had hoped at this time to be able to tell you that the picture
was completed and ready for exhibition. I am sorry that I
cannot do this. The shooting of the picture has been com-
pleted, the script is in process of being written and I am ad-
vised by Mr. Chapman, of Evanston, Illinois, who is making
the picture, that it should be ready for showing by late sum-
mer. Extra prints of this picture are being made and will
be available for local alumni association meetings or any
other gatherings where its showing will be beneficial to the
University.

x* * kK kK *

With a full student-body and the revival of all extra-
curricular activities, we again instituted our student-alumni
relations program. A good many years ago this program was
set up, especially for seniors, in order that they might be-

 

 

Henry Hill, Jr., stroke of winning Harry Lee crew, receiving
the winners cup from
Edith White, daughter of Reid White, ’19

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Figure led by
General A. G. Paxton, ’17 and Mrs. Paxton

 

come familiar with the workings of the Alumni Association
before becoming active members of the organization. We
were able to give financial assistance to several student or-
ganizations and include all seniors on the mailing list of the
Alumni Magazine.

The Senior Banquet, given annually before the war by the
Association, was revived. It was held at the Natural Bridge
Hotel on May 14 and was most successful. The invitations
to this affair requested a response. We were somewhat
puzzled by the slowness of the replies and found out on in-
vestigation that so many of these boys were married that a
serious domestic problem was involved. The answer of course
was that their wives were also included in the invitation to
the party. We were delighted to have them and they added
considerably to the glamour of the occasion. We get many
unusual questions and requests in the Alumni Office but so
far have never had it put up to us before to furnish “baby-
sitters.”

kk KK *

As has been our policy in the past, the February Maga-
zine was mailed to all alumni whose addresses we have. This
issue carried a complete report of the 1946 Alumni Fund
showing that the fund had again broken all records. 1986
alumni contributed $23,976.82. 21 per cent of the alumni who
received class letters contributed. This is also a record. I am
sorry that J cannot report to you that this year’s fund is go-
ing as well as that of *46. We are some $2,000 and 200 con-
tributors behind a corresponding date of last year. We know
this can be accounted for, as many alumni have indicated, by
the near approach of the Bicentennial fund campaign.

There will not be another Alumni Fund campaign, as such,
until 1950 when the Bicentennial anniversary year will have
ended. After the close of this fiscal year on June 30, a plan
will be evolved to combine the Alumni Fund and the Bicen-

tennial Fund.
_ a ae

Whatever success we have had with the Alumni Fund can
be attributed to the unselfish and untiring services of our
Class Agents who have given of their time and effort for
love of Alma Mater.

Respectfully submitted,

HARRY K. YOUNG, Alumni Secretary

Faculty Changes

PROMOTIONS, ADDITIONS, AND LOSSES IN
W. and L. FACULTY PERSONNEL
FOR THE FALL TERM, 1947

The appointment of Drs. William Gleason Bean and
Robert W. Dickey to professorships on the Thomas Ball
foundation, the retirement of Dr. Livingston Waddell Smith
as Cincinnati professor of mathematics, six promotions and
thirteen new appointments have been announced by the
University Board of Trustees.

In addition it was announced that Dean Clayton E. Wil-
liaams of the School of Law had been named Vincent L.
Bradford professor of law. The Bradford professorship had
been vacant since the death of Dean W. H. Moreland in 1944.

The board named Dr. Smith emeritus professor of mathe-
matics and addressed to him a letter of commendation and
appreciation for his services as professor of mathematics
since 1906. Dr. Smith had also served for many years as a
member of the university athletic committee.

The elevation of Drs. Bean and Dickey, heads of the his-
tory and physics departments, respectively, to the new stand-
ing brings to six the number of professorships on the Ball
foundation which was established in January through a gift
from Mrs. Alfred I. duPont of Wilmington, Delaware, as a
memorial to her father, Captain Thomas Ball.

The Washington and Lee trustees also approved the fol-
lowing promotions: Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw to the position of
professor of history; Dr. William W. Pussey to be professor
of German; Dr. Boyd Ross Ewing, Jr., to be associate pro-
fessor of romance languages; Dr. Bronson B. Holder to be as-
sociate professor of commerce and economics; Dr. Theodore
A. Smedley to be associate professor of law; and William A.
Jenks to be assistant professor of history, and Allen E. Ragan
to be associate professor of political science.

Additions to Faculty and staff for 1947-1948 are:

Felix P. Welch, Ph.D. Cincinnati Society Professor of
Mathematics.

George H. Foster, B.A. ’34, M.A. ’35, Ph.D., Assistant
Professor of English.

Thomas F. Walker, M.A., Assistant Professor of Span-
ish.

John H. Gilmore, B.S., Assistant Professor of Engineer-
ing.

William W. Jones, M.A., Assistant Professor of English.

Kdmund Berkeley, M.A., Instructor in Biology.

R. Lowell Wine, M.A., Assistant Professor of Mathe-
matics.

Charles R. Warren, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geology.

Hugh K. Hawk, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics.

Carter Glass, III, LL.B. ’42, Lecturer in Law.

Martin P. Burks, III, LL.B. ’32, Lecturer in Law.

Douglas E. Brady, Jr., B.S. ’37, Superintendent of Grounds
and Buildings.

 

i, a ii i a a ee em, mm ke me th ee De oe Ss Oo AC ae

BY WAY OF EXPLANATION

We regret that this issue of the Alumni Maga-
zine, intended for publication in midsummer, has
been so delayed. Shortages of paper and labor and
extra-heavy demands on the University Press have
held us up this time but we hope to send you the
next issue on time.

Oe oe ee ee ee eee ee

nhl ttl tlle, lll ln cl dl dl di de de i oe ee » » » D

 

 

 

[11]

a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Chapter Meeting Notes

ALUMNI MEET FOR FIRST GATHERING
IN MINNESOTA

Some twenty-five alumni, wives, dates and parents of boys
in the University, met Saturday evening, June 21, in the Uni-
versity Club rooms in Rochester, Minnesota, for a delightful
dinner. Wives of alumni had decorated the table in a blue
and white flower color scheme and monogrammed W. and
L. place cards. The University was represented by Dr. Ol-
linger Crenshaw, B.A. ’25; M.A. ’26, who was the principal
speaker of the evening and gave an excellent talk on the
highlights of the history of Washington and Lee. Among
those present were: Dr. Bill Longan, °41, and date; Dr.
Souther Tompkins, ’37, and date; Dr. Leonard Posey, *42, and
wife; Dr. Albert Pollack, ’38, and wife; Edwin Robb, Jr., ’43,
and Mrs. Robb: Richard Larrick, ’39, and wife; Bill Mc-
Donough, ’29, and wife; Robert Axtell, ’37, and Miss Eliza-
beth Axtell; Dr. Harry Neel, ’28; Dr. Bill Broders, ’44; Dr.
and Mrs. A. C. Broders, Jr., °38; Dr. and Mrs. A. C. Broders,
Sr.: and Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, °25; and Dr. and Mrs.
Reverdy H. Jones, V.M.L., 734.

FORMATION OF NEW ALUMNI CHAPTER

An organization meeting of the Southern West Virginia
Alumni of Washington and Lee was held at the Black Knight
Country Club, Beckley, West Virginia, on June 13, 1947

Fourteen alumni were present and the following officers
were elected: President, Harry E. Moran, ’13; Vice-President,
Stanley C. Higgins, ’37; and Secretary-Treasurer, Dwight A.
File, ’38.

The president appointed the following alumni as members
of the Executive Committee to advise with the officials in
the formation and organization of the association: C. R. Hill,
17: C. P. Anderson, ’36; A. W. Vickers, ’37; Frank Love, ’21;
and Paul Earwood, ’15.

ALUMNI MEET IN
CUMBERLAND AND HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND

Members of the Upper Potomac Chapter, Washington and
Lee University Alumni and their guests attended a dinner
meeting at Ali Ghan Country Club in Cumberland, Mary-
land, on the evening of July 30. J. Goodloe Jackson, ’14,
president of the local chapter, presided and the University
was represented by Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President, and H.
K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Secretary.

Cumberland Valley Alumni and their guests met for din-
ner at the Fountain Head Golf Club, Hagerstown, Maryland,
on the following evening, July 31, with Omer Kaylor, ‘11,
presiding, and the University represented again by Dr. Gaines
and Cy Young.

At both of these meetings Dr. Gaines, the principal speak-
er, gave a brief historical background of Washington and
Lee, explaining how it was named for George Washington,
who contributed $50,000 to the school in order to help carry
out his dream for the future; and for Robert E. Lee, who re-
jected many self-benefiting propositions, to take over the task
of supervising education at the university in order to teach

students that the people and the cause of the south were
tightly bound in the national cause. He said: “One of the
greatest chapters in the history of American education is in
its initial stage today.” Briefly recounting the events lead-
ing up to the present situation in college education, he said
that during the war years Washington and Lee had only
one-tenth of its normal student body; about half of the staff
of instructors were in the armed forces, and a section of the
university was rented to the government for the army school
of specialized services. When the war was over, reconstruc-
tion set in, followed by expansion. The enrollment doubled
and redoubled and to every vacancy at the school from 20 to
30 applicants were on hand. Now, the university is trying to
equip itself to meet the demands of expansion and at the
same time keep in tact the high standards of student char-
acter, always traditional at the school.

However, Dr. Gaines continued, with all its inconveniences,
the present expansion is giving American educators an op-
portunity they have never had before. For the first time in
the history of America, the majority of leaders of the com-
ing generation are now on the American Campus, challeng-
ing the educators to exert their most influential impact on the
leadership and destiny of the country. This in itself “is a
great and decisive prophesy of what America is yet to be.”

Dr. Gaines stated that at present the university is planning
to raise $3,000,000 dollars in connection with its Bicentennial
which will be celebrated in 1948-1949. One million dollars
is needed as a tuition endowment; one million is needed for
an adequate auditorium, a science building and other much
needed buildings on the campus, and the other million is
needed as a scholarship fund as a memorial for the 133 boys
from Washington and Lee who died during World War II.
Dr. Gaines said, that, despite the fact that the University is
asking for this sum, it is by no means in a state of poverty,
because through the depression and the war, it has emerged
debt free and has approximately seven and a quarter million
dollars in assets. The additional money is needed in connec-
tion with the expansion program, to fulfill the dream of the
school of tomorrow.

 

 

Band Concert on front campus

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

New President of Mary Baldwin

Dr. Frank Bell Lewis, B.A. ’32, M.A. ’33, professor of Bible
and philosophy at Davis and Elkins College, Elkins, West
Virginia, has been elected president of Mary Baldwin Col-
lege, Staunton, Virginia. After graduation from Washington
and Lee, Dr. Lewis spent the following three years at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, where he re-
ceived the degree of Bachelor of Divinity in 1936, and the
following year received the degree of Master of Theology.
In 1937 he was ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian
Church in the United States, and for the next two years
served as pastor at Richlands, Virginia. In 1939 Dr. Lewis
studied at New College, University of Edinburg, Scotland,
and in 1940 became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Williamson, West Virginia. In 1942 he became a member
of the faculty of Davis and Elkins College. On leave of ab-
sence from that faculty in 1944 he was appointed a fellow at
Duke University and was awarded the Doctor of Philosophy
degree by that institution in 1946. The announcement of Dr.
Lewis’ election was made by Edmund D. Campbell, ’18 presi-
dent of the Board of Mary Baldwin College.

In Memoriam
(Continued from page 27)

Martin Burks Withers died June 7, 1947, in Tampa, Florida.

1914

Felix Jerome Lann, Sr., died from a heart attack on May
5, 1947. His home was in Aberdeen, Mississippi.

1915

S. Sherry Stein died June 17, 1947, in New York following
an operation. His home was in Washington, D. C.

1918

Dixon C. Sloan died June 15, 1947, in Cumberland, Mary-

land.
1920

David Hill Brandon died April 30, 1947. His home was in
Decatur, Georgia.
1927
Douglas Steele Higgins died July 5, 1947. He is survived
by his wife, who was Miss Margaret Robinson of Lexington,
Virginia, and one son, Douglas §., Jr.

1931

Mont S. Williams died April, 1947, in Birmingham, Ala-
bama.

1937

Charles Walker died in May, 1947, in a Fort Knox hospi-
tal of injuries suffered in an automobile accident. Former
city attorney of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Mr. Walker served
five years in World War II, being in the European theatre
two years. After his discharge he reentered the Army and
at the time of his death was attached to the judge advocate’s
office at Fort Knox.

1940

James Thomas Humphrey was killed in an automobile ac-
cident on June 25, 1947. The accident occurred while com-
muting between his home in Rushmore, Virginia, and Rich-
mond, where he was attending law school at the University of
Richmond.

 

Dr. Frank Bell Lewis, B.A. ’32; M.A. ’33

 

Non-Alumnus

Dr. Benjamin A. Wooten, professor of physics at Wash-
ington and Lee from 1922 to 1927, died in Opelika, Alabama,
en July 9, 1947. At the time of his death he was head of the
physics department at the University of Alabama.

W. and L. Men in’ Foreign Service

Following is a partial list of Washington and Lee Alumni
1.0W serving in the Foreign Service of the State Department:

A. Dana Hodgdon, ’11, Consul General, Stuttgart;

James Somerville, ’°12, Commercial Attache, Teheran;

Charles H. Taliaferro, ’31, Vice Consul at Halifax;

Parker Buhrman, °16, Consul General at Bratislava;

Francis Styles, 18, Consul at Shanghai;

Philip Sprouse, ’28, Second Secretary and Consul at Nan-
king;

David Wharton, ’37, Assistant Public Affairs Office, Kabul,
Afghanistan;

Charles Withers,
at Bombay;

Paul M. Miller, ’38, Vice Consul at London;

J. Kittredge Vinson, ’32, Consul at Berlin:

David G. Basile, ’36, Information officer of the Coordina-
tion Committee for Ecuador, American Legation, Quito Ecua-
dor.

37, Vice Consul and economic analyst

[13 ]

 

Generals’ Head Man

Art (Pappy) Lewis, now in his second year as head foot-
ball coach at Washington and Lee, brought a new style of
offensive football to the Southern Conference—a high-gear,
gamble-filled, wide-open type of play that has caught the
fancy of spectators from Baltimore to Miami.

One of the all-time greats in professional football, Lewis
has installed a pro-style version of the T-formation at Wash-
ington and Lee which produced more points last year than
a Blue team has scored since 1929. With all but three of
last year’s lettermen returning, along with a promising group

of freshmen, Lewis expects to improve last season’s two and
six won-lost record this Fall. Although the team opened their
schedule with an impressive 13-0 victory over a formidable
Quantico Marine eleven on the 20th of September, the rest
of the schedule is probably tougher than any ever played by
a Washington and Lee coach.

Still thinking of his first two seasons as training periods
with an eye always toward building for the future, Lewis
thinks that his young freshman and sophomore-dominated
squad will nevertheless give a good account of itself this year.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1876

 

Thomas R. Boyle, 1349
Goodbar Avenue, Memphis,
Tennessee, represents the
oldest class we have heard
from in this year’s Alumni
Fund. Mr. Boyle was a stu-
dent here from 1874 to 1876

and is now 93 years old.

1879
William M. McElwee,

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters

to your Class Agent this year. 204

Supreme Court, Justice Holt
presided over the 18th ju-
dicial circuit of Virginia.

Frank W. McCluer lives
at 3904 Dickason Avenue,
Dallas 4, Texas.

1889

Judge James Quarles is
now retired and living at
Kast Beverley Street,
Staunton, Virginia.

 

 

whose picture appeared on
the cover of the May issue
of the Alumni Magazine, is president of the Peoples’ National
Bank, Lexington, Virginia.

John M. Glenn lives at the Hotel Russell, 45 Park Avenue,
New York, New York.

1886

W. J. Humphreys sends us no news of himself except that
his address is The Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C. Mr.
Humphreys was with the United States Weather Bureau from
1905 to 1935, when he retired as Collaborator.

Rev. John V. McCall writes a kind letter to his class mate
expressing his regret that he could not be on the campus for
Finals. He writes, “With abiding gratitude for what the dear
old institution did for me sixty years ago, and with glad re-
membrance of the dear old Alma Mater.” Mr. McCall has
been Pastor of Presbyterian churches in seven towns in Texas
and one in Oklahoma. His home is in Weatherford, Texas.

1887

Robert Lee Hunter is President of Hunter, Allen & Com-
pany, Inc., and lives at 7343 Westmoreland Avenue, Uni-
versity City, Missouri. ©

Rev. Edward R. Leyburn, now a retired minister of the
Presbyterian Church, living at 1179 Oakdale Road, N.E.,
Atlanta, Georgia, is the father of the recently elected Dean
of Washington and Lee University, Dr. James
Graham Leyburn.

Rev. B. C. Patterson had a full life for 48
years as a missionary of the Presbyterian
Church in China. He is now retired and living
at Route 2, Staunton, Virginia.

1888

Captain Greenlee D. Letcher, LL.B. ’88,
has practiced law in Lexington, Virginia for
many years and has been active in civic and
social organizations. He served as Captain of
the “Rockbridge Battery” in World War I,
which battery he enlisted and mustered in, ,
sponsored by Confederate Veterans.

Judge Henry W. Holt, Chief Justice of the
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, lives in eat ;
Staunton, Virginia. Before being named to the “1, &

 

 

Samuel Wilson Dunn is
a tobacconist living at 1308 Jefferson Street, South Boston,
Virginia.
1890

Judge F. M. Hudson has served as State Senator and
President of the Florida Senate. He is a member of the firm
of Hudson and Cason, Attorneys-at-Law, and lives at 1632
N. W. 10th Street, Miami 5, Florida.

Douglas S. Anderson is now retired and living at Ogun-
quit,, Maine. He began teaching Physics at Tulane University,
New Orleans, in 1892, became professor of Electrical Engin-
eering and Dean of the College of Engineering, and served
as Acting President of Tulane from 1934 to 1936.

Augustus K. Bowles has recently retired after fifty-three
years service with the Consolidated Coal Company at various
locations and in various capacities. He gives his address as
care of Edgemore Hotel, East Orange, New Jersey.

1892

Dr. E. L. Green, Class Agent for 1892, after teaching in
Department of Ancient Languages in the University of South
Carolina for forty-six years, was retired in 1946. Home ad-
dress: 328 Sims Avenue, Columbia, South Carolina.

Major-General Robert H. Allen, retired, is living at 1048
Grenada, San Marino, California.

Rees Turpin is senior partner in the law
firm of Turpin, Behrendt & Searing, New York
Life Building, 20 West 9th Street, Kansas
City, Missouri.

John W. Davis, B.A. ’92, LL.B. ’95, re-
ceived the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws
from Oberlin College on May 3, 1947, at the
inauguration of the new president of Oberlin,
Dr. William E. Stevenson.

1893

Benjamin A. Judd, Class Agent for ’93, has
his offices at 25 Broad Street, New York, N. Y.

Robert E. Wade was retired from the
Transportation Engineering Department of
General Electric Department, with which he
ay il ve, had been connected for many years. His home
eee is at 3850 Lyman Road, Oakland 2, California.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Dr. George Bolling Lee, member of the University Board
of Trustees, lives at 20 East 66th Street, New York, New
York. His son, Robert E. Lee, 4th, is now a student at Wash-
ington and Lee.

1894

William H. Keister, retiring Superintendent of City Schools
of Harrisonburg, was presented with a scroll signed by all
the teachers of Harrisonburg, at a dinner in his honor on
April 17, given by the Harrisonburg Teachers Association.

Charles H. Freeman is living in Bon Air, Virginia.

Preston J. Beale, Greenfield, Amsterdam, Virginia,, was
a visitor to the campus during Finals in June.

1895

C. J. Boppell, Class Agent for "95, after 23 years as Min-
ister of the West Side Presbyterian Church in Seattle, Wash-
ington, retired three years ago and was made pastor emeritus.
He has organized two new churches since retiring and is at
present pastor of one of them. Address: 2666 37th Avenue,
S. W., Seattle 6, Washington.

John P. Walker has recently retired from Government
service after serving the public lands from the Mexican bor-
der to the Yukon as a Cadastral Engineer, working in nearly
all of the Western States, including ten years in Alaska. He
has a nice home in Boise, Idaho, at 907 North 17th Street,
and in the Spring had a reunion of his children and grand-
children there.

William McC. Martin, member of the University Board
of Trustees, has recently retired from the Federal Reserve
System with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and is
now practicing law with the firm of Martin, Peper and Martin,
407 North Eighth Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

1896

Samuel D. Stokes writes his class agent that although he
has passed the seventy-five year milestone, he is still going
strong, finding life more amusing as each day goes by. Home:
Route 2, Roanoke, Virginia.

Charles E. Heater is an orchardist, living at Point of
Rocks, Maryland.

1897

Ed Wohlwender, Class Agent for 1897, had a month’s va-
cation in the Spring at Hot Springs, Arkansas. He is practic-
ing law in Columbus, Georgia.

Rev. Frank Mezick has recently had a long sojourn in a
hospital nursing a broken hip. He is a retired minister of the
Episcopal Church and his home is in Eastport, Maryland.

1898

J. Sam Slicer, Attorney-at-Law, 606 Chamber of Com-
merce Building, Atlanta, Georgia, says he still rides after the
lounds. He is a member of the Atlanta Hunt Club and owns
a very nice jumping horse. The club had a most successful
season last winter, having had eight very enjoyable drag
hunts and Hunter Trial shows.

Henry W. Anderson writes that there have been no
changes as far as he is concerned since his class letter was
written last year, except that he has ceased to be a Receiver

of the Seaboard Air Line Railway since the reorganization
of that property which became effective on August 1, 1946. He
was, however, elected Chairman of the Board of Directors
and of the Executive Committee, which position he now oc-
cupies. Address: Electric Building, Richmond 12, Virginia.

Dr. Ran T. Shields, having served as a medical missionary
of the Presbyterian Church in China for many years, is now
Assistant Professor of Pathology at the University of Ten-
nessee. Address: 1803 Union Avenue, Memphis 4, Tennessee.

Richmond Winston Holt retired November 1, 1945, at the
age of seventy years after over thirty-six years continuous
service with the government of the District of Columbia Pub-
lic School System. Address: 1907 Kenyon Street, N.W.,
Washington 10, D.C.

Edward A. O’Neal, Class Agent for 1898, head of the
American Farm Bureau Federation for the past 16 years, told
his associates before his reelection last year that he felt it
was the last time he could take the nomination. Quoting Mr.
O’Neal in a syndicated article, Life’s Little Dramas, Bart
Hodges tells the following story:

“Since 1931, I’ve tried to avoid making
speeches.

“That year, at the New York State Fair in Syracuse, I was
featured speaker on Farm Bureau Day. At the end of my
speech, a band of Indians, from a reservation in upper New
York, whisked me away and deposited me on a mound in the
center of the Indian exhibit. There they proceeded to beat
up the dust in a war dance around me.

“After a few minutes of ungodly whooping and early-
American jitterbugging, the Chief crowned me with an elabo-
rate headdress.

“*Now, you, you,you,Chief Talla Mauga’—or some name
like that—said the old fellow in a deep voice.

“Well, sir, relief and delight hit head on! By George, I was
an Indian chief. I puffed up under my crown of colored
feathers like a game rooster and voiced my gratitude at great
length. I even lapsed into a dissertation about Indians being
truly great Americans, et cetera, et cetera...

“The speech finally over, I turned to the Chief and asked,
‘what’s my name in English?’

“‘vou, you,’ grunted the old chieftain, ‘you Chief Big
Wind.’ ”

long-winded

1899

James A. McClure, Class Agent for '99, A.B. ’99, D.D. ’21,
is Retired Pastor Emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church,

St. Petersburg, Florida. Four of his sons were in World
War II.

C. P. Snyder, Admiral U.S. Navy (Retired) was placed
on inactive duty on April 2, 1947. He is President of the
United States Naval Academy Alumni Association, with
some 20,000 members. Address: 1870 Wyoming Avenue,
Washington 9, D. C.

Samuel C. Lind, professor of chemistry and Dean of the
Institute of Technology, University of Minnesota, recently re-
tired, lives at 1119 East River Road, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

1900

Alfred Grayson Davis, Class Agent for 1900, R. R. 2,
Lewisburg, West Virginia, is a farmer, especially interested in
livestock and timber.

Lynwood R. Holmes, 250 South 13th Street, Philadelphia,

[ 16 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Pennsylvania, is now retired after 28 years service with Fur-
ness Withy Steamship Company, Lt’d.

1901

Dr. A. L. Meredith has recently moved from Prairie
Home, Missouri to Boonville, Missouri. He served three terms
as Mayor or Prairie Home.

R. Waller Blain, Class Agent for 1901, is pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, St. Genevieve, Missouri.

1902

Volney M. Brown, Class Agent for 1902, had an attack of
pneumonia last Fall which necessitated a prolonged sojourn
in a hospital. His firm is now Kemp, Smith, Brown, Gog-
gin & White, State National Bank Building, 105 South Ore-
gon Street, El Paso, Texas.

John P. Wall is practicing law in Seattle, Washington. He
spent several months in Florida last winter, as part of his
plan to take life easy, and recommends that his class agent
do the same. Address: 5414 Leary Avenue, Seattle 7, Wash-
ington.

Dr. W. T. Ellis has retired from active duty as Division
Surgeon in the Department of Public Safety, Philadelphia,
and has been made Surgeon Emeritus. Address: 1115 Lindley
Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

1903

D. V. Guthrie was a visitor to the campus in the spring
to see his son, David, who received his M.A. degree from
Washington and Lee in June. Mr. Guthrie is head of the De-
partment of Physics at Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge 3, Louisiana.

Hillard H. Smith is State Banking Commissioner, 721 New
State Office Building, Frankfort, Kentucky. He greatly ap-
preciates the change from the general practice of law he had
followed for more than forty years. He expects hereafter to
spend his winters in Florida. He recently had all of his
children, in-laws and grandchildren, numbering twenty-three,
for a dinner party.

Thomas Ball is still busily engaged in the practice of law,
Suite, 738, Subway Terminal Building, Los Angeles 13, Cali-
fornia.

W. J. Turner, formerly Manager of the Braden Copper
Company, Rancaqua, Chile, is now living in New York, with
offices at 70 Pine Street. He enjoys his frequent contacts with
Washington and Lee alumni and other people who are in-
terested in his profession. His two sons are both at Harvard,
the elder who is married and has a small daughter is at the
Business School, while the younger is a sophomore in the
College. Both boys were in the service, the elder for over three
years and the younger for about two and a half years.

1904

Colonel W. Cole Davis, U. S. Army, retired, finished his
war time work as Post Surgeon at Virginia Military Insti-
tute, where he was taking the place of the regular Surgeon,
who was in the Army. He and Mrs. Davis have a beautiful
home in Lexington, where he says they are settled for life.
They are spending the summer in England.

John R. Handlan retired on June 1 from a lifetime service
with the United States Steel Corporation. He and his wife
have a cabin in the mountains near Uniontown, Pennsylvania,
and expect to spend much of their time there. He is planning
to be in Lexington for homecoming in the Fall, now that he
is free to come and go as he pleases. Address: Orchard
Avenue, Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania.

R. D. Thompson has been with the Trust Department of
the First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond, as
Manager of its Real Estate Department, since 1929, which
position he still holds.

George E. Haw writes his class agent: “For your informa-
tion and for that of the Class of 04 who probably recall a
country boy who sailed under the name of G. Haw, you can
advise them that I am still doing business at the old stand
and so far have succeeded in making a living practicing law.”
Address: Law Offices of Haw & Haw, 402-3-4 Travelers
Building, Richmond, Virginia.

1905

John A. Moore is President of the Biscayne Engineering
Company, 2221 N. E. 4th Avenue, Miami, Florida.

D. A. Bradham is Judge of the Chancery and Probate
Courts, Warren, Arkansas. In a letter to his class agent he
writes; “Not only does the populace as a whole need a re-
birth and reindoctrination of the ideology of our particular
Democratic Government, but, I fear, sometimes some of us
who know our traditions and our ideology need a rebirth or
reindoctrination as badly as the common populace. I think
our class letters do some good along that line.”

1906

Brent E. Clark is still busy operating his hotel and looking
after the interests of his three children and two grandchildren.
He still retains connection with his engineering through con-
sulting work. Address: James Hotel, Oklahoma City, Okla-
homa.

James R. Caskie had a month’s vacation in Florida in the
Spring—his third vacation in thirty-eight years. He is a
member of the firm of Caskie, Frost & Watts, Attorneys-at-
Law, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Basil Manly is still with Southern Gas Company, with
headquarters in Washington, D.C., but spends much of his
time in Birmingham, Alabama. He reports a pleasant Wash-
ington and Lee alumni reunion in Birmingham in May. Ad-
dress: 1028 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washington 6, D. C.

Dr. John N. Osburn was appointed Chief Surgeon of the
Santa Fe Coast Lines Hospital Association at a meeting of
its Board of Trustees on May 5, 1947. This means Medical
Director from Albuquerque, New Mexico, West. The hospital
is in Los Angeles, California. Address: 1135 Pacific Mutual
Building, Los Angeles, California.

1907

E. Clyde Hoge, Lathrop-Hoge Construction Company,
1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati, Ohio, reports the only additional
news with him is that he has a second grandson born April

16, 1947.

Charles F. Bagley, President of the Union National Bank,
Fayetteville, Tennessee, has another son in the University

[17]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

this fall, Thomas Owen Bagley, named for uncle Thomas
Owen, B.S. ’07. (Just before this issue of the Magazine went
to press, word was received of the death of Charles F. Bagley,
Sr., on September 30, 1947.)

1908

Abram D. Somerville, Class Agent for 1908, recently Major
Somerville, U.S.A., is now back in his native state practicing
law in Cleveland, Mississippi.

H. R. Mahler is Superintendent of the Thomasville Pub-
lic Schools, Thomasville, Georgia. He has four sons, the old-
est, Henry, a Presbyterian minister at Norton, Virginia; Sam,
supervisor of a Newport News shipbuilding company,
Stewart, still in the Navy, and Thomas, assistant principal
of the Moultrie Georgia high school.

Alan Porter Lee, Engineer, 150 Broadway, New York
7. New York, would like to have a reunion of his class either
in 1948, which will be their fortieth anniversary, or possibly
in the Bicentennial year, 1949. He thinks this would receive
strong support “...from our old dependable ‘Rags’ Phillips,
who never fails to do some good for W. and L. and for our
class.”

Richard W. Hynson, Folger, Nolan & Company, 730 Fif-
teenth Street, Washington, D. C., says the only news that he
can offer is that his Junior is a G.I. freshman at good old
Washington and Lee this year.

Robert S. Keebler made his first visit to the campus since
his graduation in 1908, to be present for the graduation of his
son, Robert S., Jr., on June 6, 1947.

George McP. Minetree has a new address at 2002 P street,
Apartment 74 N.W., Washington, D. C.

1909

William T. Delaplaine, Class Agent for 1909-A, is editor
and manager of The News and The Frederick Post, Frederick,

Maryland.

Carl Hinton was in Lexington for Finals this year and
saw his first boat race since leaving school. He writes his
class agent; “The longer I live the more I think that I made
a wise selection when I decided to go to Washington and
Lee. His home is in Hinton, West Virginia.

Daniel K. Sadler, Class Agent for 1909-Law, is Justice of
the Supreme Court of New Mexico, Santa Fe., New Mexico.
Judge Sadler was first elected to the Supreme Court in 1930
for an eight-year term, and re-elected in 1938 and 1946. Dur-
ing each encumbency he has served as Chief Justice in regu-
lar turn, the office being rotated in his state, and near the
end of his present term will serve in that capacity again. He
was married in 1911 to Miss Jessie McGaugh of Gentry, Ar-
kansas, and they have two sons, Daniel K., Jr., and Robert
Granville, both of whom were in service in World War Il.

Sam R. Marks is a member of the law firm of Marks,
Marks, Holt, Gray & Yates, Graham Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1910

Jim Montgomery, in a letter to his class agent dated May
13, 1947, says that he and Mrs. Montgomery expected to sail
for China in the Summer or Fall of this year, where he will re-
sume his work as a Missionary of the Presbyterian Church
which was interrupted by the War. He will be connected with
the China Sunday School Union.

James McKim Bell says he is pretty well retired from
business nowadays, spending two-thirds of his time in Brazil
and one-third in the North. He is still connected with Rio de
Janeiro Tramway, Light and Power Company, Ltd., Rio de
Janeiro.

Larry W. Wilson, member of the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees, operates the Greensboro Motor Car Company, Greens-
boro, North Carolina. He and his wife were in Lexington for
Finals.

L. W. Baker is with the Ohio Inspection Bureau, 431 East
Broad Street, P. O. Box 1200, Columbus 16, Ohio.

Robert P. Ashley is Vice-President Liberty Mutual In-
surance Company, 175 Berkeley Street, Boston, Massachu-
setts.

1911

Robert A. Russell is practicing law in Rustburg, Virginia.
He purchased a building about 150 years old and has done a
fine restoration job on it. He says that one would almost
think that Williamsburg had come to Rustburg.

James E. Greever is practicing law with offices in the
Guyan Drug Company Building, Logan, West Virginia. He
has not been back to the campus since 1910—did not get to
receive his degree, which was mailed to him. A little over
two years ago he was “remodeled” at the University of Vir-
ginia Hospital, and thinks he will be good for 25 or 30 more
anniversaries.

William S. Engleby has been Referee in Bankruptcy since
1927. His law offices are in the Shenandoah Life Building,
Roanoke, Virginia. His daughter is married and has two chil-
dren but he has avoided getting in the “Grandpa” class by
teaching them to call him Bill. His son is studying Mechanical
Engineering at V. P. I.

Judge William F. Blanton was out of town when Wash-
ington and Lee played the University of Miami in the fall.
He hopes these games will be continued although it puts him
in rather a spot as to whom to root for, but says he will
never forsake old W. and L. He says he is still married to the
same girl he married thirty years ago and their son Bob is
out of the service and studying law at the University of
Florida.

H. W. King says he has never gotten very far from By
Product Coke and Blast Furnace plants. For the past few
vears he has been helping build new blast product plants with
the Wilputte Coke Oven Corporation of New York. He and
Mrs. King have two sons, both now in college after having
spent three years in the Service. Address: Westerville, Ohio.

J. T. Gray, Jr., is practicing law in Brownsville, Tennessee.
In 1945 he was a member of a commission of seven lawyers to
recommend revisions of the Constitutions of the State of
Tennessee. He was married in 1926 to Miss Mary D. Pitts,
of Roanoke, and they have three children, two daughters and
a son.

1912

Bishop Lloyd R. Craighill, American Church Mission,
District of Anking, Lion Hill, Wuhu, China. He writes: “You
have been reading a lot of rather discouraging things about
China in the papers back home of late, but the recent de-
velopments have not been a great surprise to those of us who
have known China from the inside for some years past. No

[ 18 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

country could suffer the devastation that China has suffered
in ten years of gruelling warfare and not have economic and
political problems to face in the post war problems. China
will pull through this as she has pulled through countless
crises since the old Yangtse started rolling along.”

Dr. Edward Lyons retired in 1946 after 26 years as chemist
with Parke Davis Company in Detroit and has recently ac-
cepted a position as Acting Associate Professor of Chemis-
try at the University of Florida. His new address is 1331
East Boundary Street, Gainesville, Florida.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McP. Glasgow have issued invita-
tions to the marriage of their daughter Grace McPheeters to
Mr. George Bobe Dean on August 6, in Charlotte, North
Carolina.

(Notes by Class Agent, Ed Lyons)

Harry S. Coffey, Danville, Virginia. “The years have been
very kind to me....I am Superintendent of the Danville
District of the Virginia Methodist Conference. My territory
covers six counties. I have 100 churches to supervise, and 40
ministers. There are 20,000 members of the Methodist
churches in this area.”

George L. Coyle, Charleston, West Virginia. “Nothing has
happened in the past year except that I am one year older
and there are a few more grey hairs.”’ George has two boys at
W. and L., and another fine prospect for the near future.
That’s a fine record of loyalty to Washington and Lee.

Howard A. Doss, Los Angeles, California. “We have had
an unusual winter this year...not enough rain and lots of
warm weather...everything going along fine. Have been
working for this company (Southern Pacific Company) since
1 came here in 1912.”

1913

J. M. Quillen, Commonwealth’s Attorney for Southhamp-
ton County, Courtland, Virginia, has just completed the build-
ing of a modern home, where he expects to spend his “de-
clining years.’ One of his sons, Franklin Bert is now a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee.

Howard P. Macfarlane, Macfarlane, Ferguson, Allison &
Kelly, Attorneys-at-Law, First National Bank Building,
Tampa 1, Florida, thinks that the time will be ripe for a
thirty-fifth anniversary reunion of the class in 1948. His son,
Hugh C. Macfarlane, who graduated from Washington and
Lee in 1940, returned after the war and took his last semes-
ter of Law at the University, graduating last year. He is now
practicing law in his father’s firm.

Carter Glass, Jr., editor of The News and Daily Advance,
Lynchburg, Virginia, has one son, Carter Glass, III, who re-
ceived his Law Degree from the Washington and Lee Law
School last year, and another son entering the School of Jour-
nalism this fall. Carter, III, was the recipient of one of the
two awards of the Master of Lee degree from the University
of Virginia in June, and is now part-time teacher in the W.
and L. Law School.

P. D. Converse is Market Economist professor at the
University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. He reports 18,000
students at the university last winter and a summer school
of 8,500. His daughter received an A.B. degree in Chemistry
at commencement there in June. The American Marketing
Association (the professional association in this field) at
its annual meeting last December established an annual award

for the best contribution to the development of the science
of Marketing to be called the Paul D. Converse award. Ad-
dress: 402 Pennsylvania Avenue, Urbana, [llinois.

W. Taylor Thom, Blair Professor of Geology at Prince-
ton University, was too busy with commencement exercises
celebrating Princeton’s Bicentennial year, and preparation
for the summer field-course work in Montana to give his
class agent any personal news, when his letter was written in
June.

1914

Dr. Julian W. Selig, Optometrist, is practicing his pro-
fession at 511 East Main Street, Elizabeth City, North Caro-
lina.

Walter J. Wilkins reports having a “big time” at Finals
as he met a number of old friends and witnessed the gradu-
ation of his youngest son, Howard, who received his A.B.
degree in pre-medicine.

Henry N. Barker, Attorney-at-Law Bristol, Virginia, has
a son, Henry N., Jr., now a student at Washington and Lee,
and a daughter Catherine at Sweet Briar.

James Lewis Hook has made a success of “the old book
business” at 528 Locust Street, Philadelphia 6, Pennsylvania.

Colonel W. H. Neblett is president of the Reserve Officers’
Association. Elected at the meeting held in Miami, Florida,
in June, Colonel Neblett said national defense should be de-
pendent upon a well-trained and equipped civilian force, in-
stead of a large professional Army and Navy.

1915

Paul C. Thomas was elected Governor of the West Vir-
ginia District of Kiwanis at the District Convention last

‘ October. Since that time he has given much of his time,

making speeches in various towns in the state and in June
attended the International Convention in Chicago. Address:
RFD Number 1, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Dr. Atwood M. Wash writes his class agent that he has
always been enthusiastic about Washington and Lee but will
have an added interest in the old school now as his son will
be a student here next year. Address: 509 Medical Arts
Building, Richmond 19, Virginia.

James E. Bear, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
Virginia, was elected honorary member of Phi Beta Kappa
and was present for the initiation ceremonies at Washington
and Lee in the Spring.

Joseph W. Hodges, District Attorney, Silver City, New
Mexico, is Judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit of New Mexico.
He is serving his fifteenth year in this capacity and also en-
gaging in private practice, so his time is pretty well taken up.

Joe W. Milner is serving his twenty-third year as Mayor
of the City of Gulfport, Mississippi, and has one more year
to serve. However, he says after this term of office is over he
is going back to attend to Milner’s business and letting every-
body elses alone. :

Loring C. Kackley, after leaving school, practiced law for
several years in Pineville, Kentucky, and while there married
Miss Eva Mercer of Bowling Green, Kentucky. They have
two children, both now grown. The family returned to his
native town of Berryville, Virginia, in Clark County about

[19 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1930. Mrs. Kackley died in 1945. Mr. Kackley is now Cir-
cuit Court Clerk of Clark County and served for a number
of years as trial justice there.

1916

E. B. Shultz, Director Labor Relations T. V. A., Knox-
ville, Tennessee, writes his class agent that he has little news
except that he is becoming more and more of a grandfather as
the tribe increases. He and Mrs. Shultz and part of “the
tribe” celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of their marriage
in Lexington, on July 5.

C. Edmund Worth, last year, after twenty-nine years as
a member of the Tampa, Florida Bar, closed up his law of-
fices and took out a real estate broker’s license. For the past
eleven years he has been operating a motor court in Tampa
on the side. He is now operating his own court and selling
courts over the state to prospective investors. Address: P. O.
Box 9025, Tampa 4, Florida.

Lieutenant-Colonel Norvin C. Evans, Class Agent for
1916-Law, has been called back into service, after having been
discharged, and is now doing some work for the State De-
partment. Permanent address: 2620 Gladstone Avenue, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Selden McNeer, member of the law firm of Campbell and
McNeer, First Huntington National Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, is a more frequent visitor to the cam-
pus now that his son, Selden S., Jr., who got back from Ger-
many a year ago, is now a student at Washington and Lee.
He also has a younger daughter who is a student at Sweet
Briar.

David A. Falk, O. Falk’s Department Store, Tampa 1,
Florida, writes his class agent that there is not much news to
report since last year, except that on November 13 he finally,
after all these years got married. His wife was the former
Mary Irene McKay of Tampa.

1917

A. G. Paxton, A. G. Paxton Company, Mississippi Delta
Cotton, Greenville, Mississippi, and Mrs. Paxton were in
Lexington for the thirtieth anniversary reunion of his class
at Finals. He says “Washington and Lee looked beautiful and
the town of Lexington much the same except that it is a
little bit more progressive. I think that we alumni have
changed more than the school or the town.

J. M. Faulkner, Executive Supervisor of the Southwestern
Department Fire Companies’ Adjustment Bureau, Inc., Dal-
las, Texas, is a staunch believer in the Alumni Fund. His son,
J. M., Jr., graduated with the degree of A.B. in 1940, and
a second son, Tom, is now a student here.

Homer A. Jones, president and executive chairman of the
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia~Ten-
nessee, says he has no particular news to convey about him-
self, except that he is now a grandfather. Homer A. Jones,
Jr., has a little girl, Diana Ida Jones, who was fifteen months
old in May.

Frank J. (Heine) Gilliam, Dean of Students at Washing-
ton and Lee, writes his class agent, “This has been the busi-
est, most amazing year that I have ever known at Washington
and Lee, but I believe, on the whole, about the best.”

J. L. (Luke) Williams was present for the ’17 class re-

union at Finals. His son, Donald, will enter Washington and
Lee in the fall, as well as a number of other sons of members
of this class. Luke is with The Bristol Company, Waterbury
91, Connecticut.

Judge Herbert G. Smith, LL.B. °17, has been awarded the
distinguished service medal of the Cosmos Club of Newport
News, Virginia. The award was made because of his leader-
ship in the development of the campaign to obtain funds to
bring about new industrial activity on the Lower Peninsula
and his active interest in the furthering of boys’ clubs ac-
tivities.

William J. Cox has declined reappointment as highway
commissioner of Connecticut after nine years in that office
in order to return to his home in Leesburg, Virginia. He was
recently elected to honory membership in the Connecticut
Society of Civil Engineers after having served as President
of the Connecticut section, American Society of Civil En-
gineers, and of the Association of Highway officials of the
North Atlantic States. His son, Thomas Edwards Cox is a
student at Washington and Lee.

J. Seybert Hansel, Attorney and Counsellor at Law, Mon-
terey, Virginia, writes that he thoroughly enjoyed the 30th
reunion of the class at Finals and is sure it was the happiest
day that many of the class ever spent in Lexington.

1918

Robert Serpell, now in the real estate and orchard busi-
ness, 424 South Ridgewood Avenue, Daytona Beach, Florida,
was a visitor to the campus in June.

James C. Ambler is still with Ginn & Company, Educa-
tional Publishers, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York,
and on the Board of Directors and Manager of the Southeast-
ern territory. He has two children, a daughter, Jacquelin and
son, James C., Jr., and the same wife he started with. He
-_ he does not believe in making changes in this field
either.

John L. McChord is now managing partner of the law firm
of Calfee, Fogg, McChord and Halter, Union Commerce
Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio.

1919

Tom Standifer has been with the Ouachita National Bank
in Monroe, Louisiana, ever since leaving school, and is now
serving as Cashier. He has only been back to Lexington twice
since he was a student here and then for only a few hours
stay.

W. R. Campbell, Hans Watts Realty Company, Hunting-
ton, West Virginia, reports a fine meeting of the Tri-State
«wlumni chapter in Ashland, Kentucky, on February 22, cele-
brating “Washington and Lee’s birthdays.”

James E. Moore is still in the building and lumber sup-
ply business, being connected with Minter Homes Corpora-
tion, Huntington, West Virginia. He is married and has a
daughter and two sons.

Lawrence W. Morgan was the principal speaker at the
meeting of the Alabama Tuberculosis Association held in
Birmingham on May 14. Mr. Morgan practices law in Browns-
ville, Tennessee, where he takes part in American Legion,
Crippled Children’s Society, Boy Scouts of America and Ro-
tary Club and Masonic activities.

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1920

Lieutenant Colonel Carl A. Foss of Forest Hills, New
York, has been assigned to the Adjutant General’s Section of
Headquarters First Army. Address: 68-10 108th Street For-
est Hills, Long Island, New York.

Harry P. Burns is Manager of the Atlanta Division of
Belding Heminway Corticelli, silk threads, cotton threads,
fabrics, hosiery, lingerie, at 119 West 40th Street, New York
18, New York. He has been with this company for 27 years.

Glen Evins has been living in Tampa, Florida, for the past
23 years. He is Vice-President and Manager of Lykes Broth-
ers Insurance Agency at 205 Franklin Street, Tampa 1, Fla.

R. Hence Young is employed as a mechanical engineer by
the Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corporation, and lives at
R. F. D. Number 3, Medina, New York.

William E. Johnston has been appointed Sales Manager
of the Southern Sales District of The American Sugar Re-
fining Company, with headquarters in New Orleans.

1921

Lewis S. Musgrove is still with the United States Guar-
antee Company, 90 John Street, New York, and lives in For-
est Hills. His Daughter is a student at Sweet Briar.

Elmer A. Stuck is with the Craighead Construction Com-
pany, Inc., Jonesboro, Arkansas. His oldest daughter was
married last June, another daughter in the University of Ar-
kansas for her first year, and the youngest in public school
at home.

Gray Funkhouser is still teaching mathematics at Exeter.
He and his family were visitors to Lexington during the sum-
mer. Address: Cilly Hall, Exeter, New Hampshire.

J. Edward Moyler is practicing law in Franklin, Virginia.
His son, Edward, Jr., is entering the university in September.

1922

Robert M. Bear, chairman of the department of psychology
at Dartmouth College, drove through Lexington last Fall
for the first time since 1940. He says he found it very lovely.

James P. Mattox has various interests in Salisbury, North
Carolina. He says things are going along nicely for him and
the only thing he has to worry about is that his hair is be-
ginning to get a bit grey and the old vim and vigor are dimin-
ishing somewhat.

Verbon E. Kemp is completing his thirteenth year of ser-
vice with the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce and his
tenth year as chief executive of the organization. His oldest
son is a senior at the University of Richmond, after which
he will study medicine, his daughter will enter college this
fall, and the youngest son has finished Junior High School.

Matthew G. Henderson is Secretary-Treasurer of the Re-
liance Press, printers and engravers of 410 Plume Street,
Norfolk, Virginia.

Edgar Jackson has recently acquired an interest in The
Tidewater News, Franklin, Virginia, and in the News Pub-
lishing Company. Primarily he is the editor of The Tidewater
News. His home address is 504 North High Street, Franklin,
Virginia.

1923

George W. Good, after a number of years in advertising
agency work in New York and later with the duPont Com-
pany both in New York and Wilmington, Delaware, as di-
rector of the packaging research section of the cellophane
division, was commissioned in the Navy in 1942 and re-
leased to inactive duty as Lieutenant Commander in 1946.
While in New York he got an M.A. from Columbia in Fine
Arts and during the past years has exhibited in New York,
Paris, Philadelphia and Wilmington.

Dr. John H. Bonner is practicing medicine in Elizabeth
City, North Carolina, with offices in the Carolina Building.
He has a daughter 16 years old with black hair and blue
eyes, who has one more year in High School. Before long
she will be running around to Finals.

Joseph R. Long is still practicing law with the firm of
Fordyce, White, Mayne, Williams and Hartman, 206 Olive
Street, St. Louis, Missouri, with occasional weekend jaunts
into the Ozarks in search of small-mouth bass and quail in
season. He has accepted the chairmanship of the Washington
and Lee Bicentennial Campaign in St. Louis.

Doug Perry is Regional Supervisor of The Travelers In-
surance Company, with headquarters in New York. Owing
to the housing shortage he is still living in Boston, commut-
ing week-ends meanwhile. Address: 632 Perkins Street, Mel-
rose 76, Massachusetts.

John G. Ragsdale has served as Municipal Judge of El Do-
rado, Arkansas, for the past ten years and was recently nomi-
nated for another four year term. His older son, John, is back
from the service and in his senior year in the college of En-
gineering at the Universjty of- Arkansas. The younger son,
Bob, was still in the service somewhere in Japan, but ex-
pected to be home during the summer.

Roger B. Jones is still in the oil business as attorney for
Sinclair Refining Company for the Western District, and
starting his 21st year with the company. He has three chil-
dren, Robin, age 14, Ann, 11, and “most important,” Melissa,
age 5 weeks, when his letter was written in April. Address:
601 Rialto Building, Kansas City 6, Missouri.

1924

Louis H. Towbes is in the real estate business at 1104
Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C. His son, Michael,
is entering the Freshman Engineering Class at Princeton.

T. S. (Red) Schneider, following being manager for a
number of years of a large chemical company, is now presi-
dent of “Tesco Chemicals,” Atlanta 2, Georgia. His son will
be in the freshman class at Washington and Lee this fall.

Walter L. Simmons is head of the Department of English,
Rhode Island State College, Kingston, Rhode Island.

1925

Bruce F. Gannaway is beginning his eighth year as Pastor
of Hendricks Methodist Church, Jacksonville, Florida. Since
he has been in this church so long, he was looking forward
to a longer vacation this summer, covering many of the
Western states.

William L. Woolfolk, M.D., is doing eye, ear, nose and
throat work in Owensboro, Kentucky. In 1942 he passed the

[ 21]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

American Board of Otolaryngology which gave him admis-
sion to the American Academy of Ophthalmology and Oto-
laryngology, and last December, at the meeting in Cleveland,
he became a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons in
Otolaryngology.

C. W. Rex is president of Rex-McGill Investment Com-
pany, Orlando, Florida. He has a son in college at the Univer-
sity of Florida, but has the firm intention that he shall en-
roll in Washington and Lee during his last two years of
school so that he may also get his degree from his father’s
school.

F. T. Mitchell has only returned to the campus once since
graduation and that in 1940 for the fifteenth anniversary re-
union of his class. He has been in Brazil for the past twenty
years (war years excepted), with The National City Bank
of New York in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He is married and has
one daughter who is now in school in the States.

Sam Bucholtz, attorney-at-law, Atlantic National Bank
Building, Jacksonville, Florida, writes on June 23, that he
had the extreme pleasure of driving through Lexington sev-
eral weeks ago and walking down the campus at Washington
and Lee for the first time since 1925. He hopes that his son
will enter the University in about two years.

H. Edward Rietze is the Louisville, Kentucky, representa-
tive of the Allen-Bradley Company of Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
Electric Controlling Apparatus. He has a son 9 years old and
a daughter 7. He met so many Washington and Lee alumni
at the Kentucky Derby this year that he thinks perhaps his
class should hold its twenty-fifth reunion at the Derby in 1950.

George S. Wilson, Jr., was recently elected president of
the Kentucky State Bar Association. He is a member of the
law firm of Wilson & Wilson, Owensboro, Kentucky, and
his brother, William L., LL.B. ’35, is also a member of the
firm, of which their father is the senior member.

1926

Paul M. Schuchart, who has been with the Virginia Tele-
phone and Telegraph Company, Charlottesville, Virginia, has
been appointed Vice-President and General Manager of The
Southeastern Telephone Company, Tallahassee, Florida, an
operating subsidiary of the parent company.

Thomas Thorn Moore, recently with the Bureau of In-
surance & Banking, State Corporation Commission, Rich-
mond, Virginia, has moved to Roanoke, Virginia, to become
Comptroller of the Shenandoah Life Insurance Company, Inc.

C. Carter Lee, commonwealth’s attorney of Franklin
County, Virginia, has announced his candidacy for the state
senate from the 2lst senatorial district, subject to the Demo-
cratic primary August 5. He is a great nephew of General
Robert E. Lee.

Earl L. Valentine, formerly of Lexington, Virginia, and
recently Office of Price Administration District Enforcement
Attorney for Virginia, announces the opening of offices for
the general practice of law, Suite 711 Mutual Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

1927

Harold R. Sullivan is practicing law in Detroit with of-
fices at 628 Ford Building. He writes: “Within a block of
my home two other Washington and Lee men reside, so we
have a chance to get off a little campus chatter occasionally,

particularly during the summertime as we are all victory
gardeners.”

Rev. R. Wilbur Simmons, pastor of the Park Congrega-
tional Church, Greeley, Colorado, is now on a two-months
tour of England, Scotland, and the major countries of Europe
as a member of a deputation of four ministers representing
the Congregational Christian Committee for War Victims
and Reconstruction. The purpose of the mission is to in-
spect relief and reconstruction programs being carried out
by Congregational churches in devastated countries.

Charles T. Smith has been working for du Pont since 1940
and has found a number of Washington and Lee men in Wil-
mington—Bill Hawkins, ’30, John Martin, ’26, and Max and
Charles Terry, ’27 and ’23 respectively. Address: 1400 West
7th Street, Wilmington, Delaware.

Bob Jones is practicing law in Dallas and has offices in the
Republic Bank Building. A short time ago he was appointed
as a supervisor of the City and County of Dallas Levee Im-
provement District.

1928

Philip D. Sprouse was a recent visitor to the campus. Af-
ter graduation here, he studied in the graduate school of
Princeton University and in France, and since 1935 has been
in the United State diplomatic service. Much of his time has
been spent in China, and the New York Times recently an-
nounced that he would accompany General Wedemeyer to
China, in an advisory capacity. Upon his return he will be in
the Department of State, Washington.

Dr. Harry B. Neel spent nearly five years at the Mayo
Clinic (1936-1940), then went with the Albert Lea Medical
and Surgical Center, 527 Hyde Building, Albert Lea, Minne-
sota, to do surgery. He was in the Navy for nearly three
years, and is is now back with the Medical and Surgical Cen-
ter.

Edward H. Miller resigned in April as Special Assistant
to the Attorney General where he wound up as a Lieutenant
Colonel on the General Staff Corps, to become a partner in
the firm of Cummings, Stanley, Truitt & Cross, 1625 K. Street,
N. W., Washington, D.C., which is headed by former At-
torney General Homer Cummings.

S. Frank Jones has been connected with the cotton textile
industry, directly or indirectly, practically ever since he left
Washington and Lee, and is at present Vice-President and
Assistant Treasurer of Textron Southern, Inc. At the time
his letter was written in May he was living in Anderson,
South Carolina, but expected to move to Charlotte in about
sixty days.

William C. Norman is Treasurer and Director of the Cros-
sette, Arkansas, Lumber Companies. He has been back to
Lexington only once since leaving school and that for a one
night stop. However, there are many alumni in his vicinity,
many of them lawyers who are retained by his companies.

Wilton M. (Red) Garrison is still living in Charlotte, North
Carolina, where he is sports editor of The Charlotte Observer,
the Carolinas’ leading newspaper. He served two years in
the Army Air Forces, is married and looking forward to the
20th reunion of the class in Lexington next Finals.

Oldham Clarke is a member of the law firm of Allen, Mc-
Elwain, Dinning, Clarke and Ballantine, Louisville, Kentucky.
He has two children, Ernest Hoge, 16, and Louisa, 10. He

[ 22 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

has returned to Lexington only once since graduation, but
hoped to make the trip this summer with his family.

1929

James M. Shackelford, 25 Clinton Place, Metuchen, New
Jersey, says the only news with him is the birth of a daugh-
ter, his first child, now seven months old. His wife has two
sons by a former marriage and they feel that they now have
2 complete family.

Ed Madison has again resumed his pre-war status with the
law firm of Madison, Madison, Files and Shell with offices in
Bastrop and Monroe, Louisiana, after spending fifty-one
months in the service.

Richard D. Carver is Vice-President and Treasurer of the
George R. McConnell Insurance Company, of Troy, Ohio. He
has two children, now eleven and eight years old.

Ted Kimbrough, Jr., is a member of the firm of Greer and
Kimbrough, Inc., licensed general contractors, 1020 Ex-
change Building, Memphis, Tennessee.

1930

Thomas D. Shumate has been associated with his brother
Judge Hunter M. Shumate, LL.B. ’16, since his graduation,
having offices in both Irvine and Richmond, Kentucky. His
family consists of a wife and three daughters, so he says he
is well chaperoned.

Robert E. Clapp has recently resumed his position as
SpecialAssistant Attorney General for the State Roads Com-
mission at Frederick, Maryland, after three years service with
the Army.

Ben Rawlins, General Attorney for Carnegie Steel Cor-
poration, hasn’t been back to Lexington for some time, but
hopes to remedy this condition before long.

Dr. Murrel H. Kaplan, after three and a half years in the
war, is now practicing his profession at 203 Medical Arts
Building, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Graham Morison was practicing law with Wendell Willkie
in New York until 1941 when he took leave of absence to
come to Washington with the War Production Board as an
assistant to the General Counsel. He enlisted in the Marine
Corps in 1943 and, after spending considerable time in the
Pacific, was returned to Washington not long before V-J
Day. When he was released from duty, his friend Tom Clark,
was made Attorney General and, at his request, Graham is
now his assistant. Address: 2745 29th Street, N. W., Wash-
ington 8, D.C.

1931

Judge J. Robert Martin, Jr., LL.B. ’31, was the judge sit-
ting in the recent much publicized lynch trial in Greenville,
South Carolina. Judge Martin was a member of the South
Carolina Legislature when elected to this circuit three years
ago. At 37, he is one of the younger jurists in the state and
as reported by a United Press correspondent, “was leaning
over backwards to prevent race prejudice from clouding the
issue.” |

Watson A. Bowes reports a rushing business in his firm,
A. G. Bowes & Son, Realtors, 502 California Building, Den-
ver 2, Colorado, “having just completed the largest real es-
tate appraisal ever made, some 42% million acres of land in

Western Colorado formerly belonging to the Confederate
Tribes of Ute Indians, which tribes we are representing in
a claims suit before the United States Court of Claims.” These
activities plus lecturing at Boston University and being Presi-
dent this year of the Colorado Association of Real Estate
Boards keep him busy.

Alex Veech is senior civil engineer of the Public Works
Department, Naval Air Station, San Diego, California. He is
married and has two children, a boy and a girl.

John W. Devine, Jr., M.D., has been practicing medicine in
Lynchburg, since 1938, with the exception of the war years,
in which he did neurosurgery in the Army. He was stationed
for two years at Percy Jones General Hospital in Battle
Creek, Michigan, and then was commanding officer of a neuro-
surgical team and went in on Okinawa on DI and stayed
until the occupation troops entered Korea. Address: 610
Church Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Robert J. Thrift, Jr., is Judge of the Twelfth Judicial Cir-
cuit, Fayetteville, West Virginia, has been living in Fayette-
ville since leaving school. He is married and has three chil-
dren, two girls and a boy. He practiced by himself for some
years after graduation and then served as Assistant Prose-
cuting Attorney for eight years. He has been in his present
position for about 234 years.

James B. Martin is a member of the firm of DeHardit and
Martin, Attorneys-at-Law, Gloucester, Virginia.

1932

Haven Walton has been in Suriname, South America, with
the Alcoa Steamship Company, since January, 1946, after
spending a year and a half in Trinidad. He expected to be in
the States for a couple of months this summer. Address: 26
Waterkant, Paramaribo, Suriname, South America.

William C. Mulligan, Class Agent for 1932-A, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Winston Strawn and Shaw, First Na-
tional Bank Building, Chicago 3, Illinois.

Dr. Frank Ferne Ellis, Jr., is practicing internal medicine
in Lynchburg, Virginia, with offices at 619 Church Street.

Ross L. Malone, Jr.. Atwood & Malone, Lawyers, Ros-
well, New Mexico, as State Delegate from New Mexico to
the House of Delegates of the American Bar Association, has
sat as a member of the House for the past year. He was origi-
nally elected to fill an unexpired term and this year has been
nominated for a full term of three years. He says: “My ex-
perience has impressed me with the value of the American

‘Bar Association both to the legal profession and to the in-

dividual lawyers and I earnestly solicit both membership and
support on the part of all the members of our class.”

Jim Sparks is again actively engaged in the practice of law
in Monroe, Louisiana, after having spent nearly four years
in the U.S. Navy during the war. He has two sons ages
seven and two respectively. His firm is Thompson, Thomp-
son and Sparks, Bernhardt Building, Monroe, Louisiana.

Hannibal N. Joyce is a member of the law firm of Joyce
and Stone, Martinsville, Virginia. He has a younger brother
who is a first year student in the Law School this year.

1933

; Marshall Black joined the Marines in 1943 and served
thirty months, 18 in the Pacific, getting back home in Novem-

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ber, 1945. He is now operating a weekly paper, the Upson
County News, Thomaston, Georgia, which he organized.

Ed Rannells, Jr., is manager of Sales for the Twin City
Motor Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Henry F. Arnold is Editor and Publisher of The Cullman
Tribune, Cullman, Alabama.

Deal Blanchard has just relinquished to his successor the
duties of President of the Portsmouth Junior Chamber of
Commerce, and has taken over office as one of three Vice-
Presidents of the Virginia Retail Coal Merchants Associa-
tion. His firm is Blanchard & Turner, Inc., coal-fuel oil, hard-
ware, Portsmouth, Virginia.

Allen Wofford is still in the insurance business, Wofford
Brothers, Inc., Wofford Building, Johnson City, Tennessee.
He is now branching out in real estate, opening a sub-divis-
ion for summer cottages at Linville, North Carolina. He is
married and has three children, the youngest 3 months old.

Joe Bear, Bear Lumber Company, Montgomery, Alabama.
Washington and Lee is well represented in this firm with all
six brothers in the business, with classes ranging from 1924

to 1938.
1934

Layne H. Ford is Examiner in Charge, West Virginia
Unemployment Compensation Board of Review, Charleston,
West Virginia; also in private practice of law at Charleston
and Grafton to such extent as his duties allow.

1935

Henry Ravenhorst, since completing Army duty in July,
1946, has been back at Washington and Lee serving as Hous-
ing Administrator and doing some architectural work on the
side. He has a wife and a daughter born January 2, 1947.

Don R. Wallis is Manager of Interstate Securities Com-
pany, Automobile Financing, 37 North Third Street, Colum-

bus, Ohio.

Norman S§S. Fitzhugh, Jr., was one of five delegates from
Charleston, West Virginia, to the International Rotary Con-
vention in San Francisco, in June, visiting the Grand Canyon,
Yosmite, etc., en route. Address: Kanawha Banking & Trust
Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

Jake Clements reports quite a nice little oil boom in his
part of the country, and hopes for even better things in the
near future. He is practicing law with his father under the
firm name of Clements & Clements, Rolling Fork, Missis-
sippi.

Tom Morris works for International Harvester as a buyer
in Chicago and travels back and forth to his home in La-
Grange, Illinois, four times a week. He has a wife, two sons
and a daughter, 6, 3 and six weeks. Address: 80 Bassford
Avenue, LaGrange, Illinois.

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins is practicing medicine in Philadel-
delphia, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology. Address:
525 East Mt. Airy Avenue, Philadelphia 19, Pennsylvania.

W. W. Fowlkes, after several ventures in partnerships, has
recently opened his own offices as attorney-at-law in the
South Texas Building, San Antonio, Texas. He was at his
home in Danville in June but was unable to get down to
Lexington for Finals.

George G. Glynn has been selling for Hanes Hosiery
since returning from the army about a year ago, finishing up
as a First Lieutenant in Ordnance. Address: 83 Park Terrace
West, New York 34, New York.

1936

Fred D. Pultz, after getting out of the Army, spent a year
at the State University, Columbus, Ohio, where he received
an M.A. degree. He is married and his son, Frederick Ross
was born on February 11, 1947.

Duncan Corbett is in the land department of Humble Oil
and Refining Company, at Corpus Christi, Texas. He is
married and has a son 1% years old.

J. Glenn Shively volunteered for the Navy Air Corps in
January, 1941, and received his commission in September,
1941, and was flying all through the war until December, 1946,
when he refused a regular commission to go into the auto-
mobile business at 204 Lincoln Way West, Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania. He was married on November 7, 1942 to Miss
Mary Elizabeth Copley of Roanoke and they have one son,
Jerry, who was three years old in June.

Major Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., was expected to return from
Korea about July 1, when he would start a two years ap-
pointment on the Thoracic Surgery Service at the University
of Michigan.

William H. Seaton, former claims attorney for the Amer-
ican Casualty Company for West Virginia, has been promoted
to the position of manager of the companies’ Charleston, West
Virginia, office. Mr. Seaton was a practicing attorney in
Charleston from 1937 to 1942 when he joined the American
Casualty companies. as claims attorney since that time except
for a leave of absence during the war when he served in the
U.S. Naval forces.

1937

Charles E. Roth is practicing law, with offices in the
Murchison Building, Wilmington, North Carolina. His mail-
ing address is still 614 William Street, Henderson, North
Carolina.

Kent Forster is Assistant Professor of History at the
Pennsylvania State College, State College, Pennsylvania,
since receiving the Ph.D. degree from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1941. He was in the Army Air Forces for
2% years.

1938

Bill Daniel and his brother are building 132 houses in the
“Daniel Addition” in Tulsa, Oklahoma. He was unable to get
to Finals this year although he had made reservations at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel and “was all set.’ Address: Daniel
Building, Third at Boston, Tulsa 3, Oklahoma.

Paul M. Miller has passed the examinations for the For-
eign Service and hopes to receive an appointment as Vice-
Consul. Meantime he is teaching Foreign Service subjects
at the Marine Corps Institute and is working on a Master
of Arts degree in Foreign Affairs at George Washington Uni-
versity.

Albert O. Burks, since emerging from the Air Corps last
year, is in the general practice of law, associated with Henry
W. McLaughlin, Jr., ’37, in Halifax, Virginia.

Frank L. Price, Class Agent for 1938-Law, has recently

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

changed his address to 410 Lincoln Avenue, Takoma Park,
Maryland.

Bill Karraker was pretty much stabilized in his job as
pilot with Pan American Airlines, Cocoanut Grove, Florida,
until the first of April of this year; flying to Brazil—week
off—and down to Brazil again. He was then transferred to
New York to fly the New York-Puerto Rico run, which
means, “leaving the bliss of Florida living, and a constant
dose of the stinking weather that pervades the New York
area.”

Joe Drake, discharged from the Navy about a year and a
half ago, is now back in the practice of law in Port Gibson,
Mississippi.

T. Hal Clarke is with the Atlanta Federal Savings and
Loan Association 22 Marietta Street, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia.

1939

Neil T. Houston is now a graduate student in economics
at Harvard University where he has a scholarship in the
Graduate School of Public Administration. Permanent ad-
dress: 700 North Jefferson, Carrollton, Missouri.

1940

Charles O. (Red) Turner is now in business with his
brother-in-law under the firm name Turner’s, 9 East Nelson
Street, Lexington, Virginia. They have a prosperous busi-
ness, selling drug sundries, candies, cosmetics, tobaccos,
films and gifts.

Gil Gardner is still with Fairchild Publications, writing
for Retailing Home Furnishings and Women’s Wear Daily,
two of their trade papers. He and his wife, Emily, are start-
ing their third year at the same residence address:—559 Surf
Street, Chicago, Illinois.

George Grasty received an M.A. degree from Duke last
year, attended summer school at the German School of Mid-
dlebury College, Vermont, and since September, 1947, has
been instructor in German at Duke. Address: Box 4510, Duke
Station, Durham, North Carolina.

Hamilton Disbrow, after three and a half years in the
U.S. Navy, received his discharge in December, 1945, and
is now sales representative in the New York office of the
J. F. Baker Chemical Company. Address: 10 Woodside Road,
Madison, New Jersey.

Jim Hammett ended his service with the Navy Air Corps
in December, 1945, and resumed his study of law at Louisi-
ana State University and was scheduled to graduate August
8, 1947. He was married to Miss Carolyn Fleming on August
28, 1946. Address: 1104 St. Vincent, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Richard W. (Dick) Boisseau, Class Agent for 1940-A, is
vice-president of Southern Dry Goods & Notion Co., Peters-
burg, Virginia.

Robert A. Gaddy is General Manager, Pyramid Concrete
Products Co., Monroe, Louisiana.

Ross V. Hersey, Jr., has been made managing editor of
the News-Virginian, daily newspaper of Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia.

1941

Allen Snyder has been Associate Director of the Wash-
ington and Lee Bicentennial Program for the past year. He

enjoys life in Lexington where he comes in contact with
many old friends.

John E. Perry, since his release from the Navy, is back in
the Trust Department of the Peoples First National Bank
and Trust Company, Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania.

Ralph (Tex) Lehr, since getting out of the service, is in
the Real Estate and Mortgage Loan business with his brother
at 2119 Alamo National Building, San Antonio, Texas.

B. F. Ashcraft is vice-president of Sulphur Springs Coca-
Cola Bottling Company at Sulphur Springs, Texas, as well
as another similar plant at Nacogdoches, Texas.

Theodore A. Bruinsma is living at 991 Massachusetts
Avenue, Lexington, Massachusetts, with his wife and two
children. He is attending Harvard Law School.

Marion G. Heatwole, B.S. 41; LL.B. ’46, is now working
with Ben Rawlins, LL.B. ’30, General Attorney, Carnegie
Steel Corporation. Address: 746 Washington Road, Pittsburgh
16, Pennsylvania.

Charles G. Thalhimer has joined the firm of Thalheimer
Bros., Inc., in Richmond, Virginia, and is serving in the
operating division specifically with duties attached to com-
pleton of the new building program. Mr. Thalheimer is a di-
rector of the corporation and a son William B. Thalheimer,
Sr., chairman of the board. With his brother William B. Thal-
heimer, Jr., vice-president and director, he represents the
fourth generation of his family to be active in management
of the store, which has served Richmond for 105 years.

1942

Robert F. Campbell, Jr., B.A. 42, received the degree of
M.S. in Journalism from Columbia University in June, 1947.
His home address is 6 Pierson Drive, Asheville, North Caro-
lina.

Lieutenant Paul Baker, Jr., is now in Germany with the
26th Motor Transport Sq., A.P.O. 208, Care P.M., New York,
New York.

Henry M. Yonge is stationed at Oliver General Hospital,
Augusta, Georgia, as a First Lieutenant in the Medical Corps.

E. S. Hildebrand, Jr., received the master of arts degree
from the Faculty of Philosophy, Columbia University, New
York in June. He served for four years in the United States
Marine Corps in the Pacific area and in Tsingtao, China.

Robert S. Rosenfeld is part-time lecturer in chemistry and
a student in the Graduate School of the University of Pitts-
burgh. Address: 5636 Forbes Street, Apartment 12-B, Pitts-
burgh 17, Pennsylvania.

1943

Russell H. (Russ) Neilson has recently moved from New
York City to Oakland, California, and is associated with the
Bauer & Black Division of the Kendall Company as Office
Manager of the Western Branch in San Francisco. He was
married to the former Miss Anne Siket of Thaxton, Virginia,
and Buffalo, New York, on July 13, 1946. Address: 8026
Atherton Street, Oakland, California.

Al Darby, Class Agent for 1943, has recently changed his
job and his address from Richmond, Virginia, to become edi-
torial supervisor for four weekly papers in suburban com-
munities in the vicinity of Cincinnati. His new address is
4415 Main Avenue, Norwood 12, Ohio.

[25 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Joe Ellis, Jr., is editor of the Clarksdale Register, an af
ternoon daily of Clarksdale, Mississippi. He was married
June 14, 1947, to Miss Mary Barrett Osborn and their home
address is Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Richard E. Cooke is with the advertising department, Vick
Chemical Company, Greensboro, North Carolina. Address:
Box 43, Guilford, North Carolina.

Walter R. Browder, A.B. ’43, received the degree of M.S.
in Journalism from Columbia University in June, 1947. Home
address: 1288 Dean Street, Brooklyn, New York.

1944

Lloyd Hollingsworth Smith, Jr., is now on a research fel-
lowship in physiology at Harvard Medical School and is serv-
ing as president of the Harvard chapter of Alpha Omega
Alpha, the “Medical Phi Beta Kappa.” He is scheduled to
get his M.D. next spring. Address: 161 South Huntington,
Avenue, Boston 30, Massachusetts.

Robert O. Crockett, Jr., B.S. °44, recently post-graduate
student in the School of Commerce at Washington and Lee,
has been awarded a fellowship in business economics at Mas-
cachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, and will enter the institution in September. The fel-
lowship is for a three-year term and is regarded as a very
high honor and a fitting tribute to his studiousness.

Dr. George E. Calvert received his medical degree from
the Medical College of Virginia in June. He will serve his in-
terneship at Stuart Circle Hospital, in Richmond, where he
and his wife will make their home.

William B. VanBuren is in his second term at Yale Law
School. His home address is 721 Russell Place, Plainfield,
New Jersey.

1945

R. Edward Jackson, A.B. ’45 (as of June 6, 1947) is now
with the United Press, 220 East 42nd Street, New York, and
lives at 355 West 55th Street, Apartment 7-E, New York. He
and Webb McLeod, A.B. ’46 (as of June 6, 1947), share the

same apartment and are working for the same organization.

1946

Carter Glass, 3rd of Lynchburg, Virginia, was the recipi-
ent of one of the two awards of the master of law degrees
ever bestowed by the University of Virginia, at the close of
its 125th session in June. He is now a part-time teacher in
the Law School at Washington and Lee, while practicing law
in Lynchburg.

Jack Harper, II is No. 1 player on the 1947 Penn State
golf team. Last season he played on the Washington and Lee
links team.

David Lewis, 1713 Moreland Avenue, Baltimore, Mary-
land, is studying in the Baltimore College of Dental Surgery.
He has recently finished his junior year and passed Part I
of the Maryland State Board examinations.

Rex Criminale is now at the Graduate College Princeton
University. He was in Lexington for Finals.

Robert M. Garvin was graduated from the United States
Military Academy on June 2, and received his commission in

the armored cavalry. Home address: 1324 Ridge Avenue,
Steubenville, Ohio.

1947

Brent Breedin is now a reporter on the Corpus Christi,
Texas, Caller-Times. Address: 401 Clifford Street, Corpus
Christi, Texas.

 

Marriages

1923
Carl Bascom Stone was married to Miss Velma Jones on
June 28, 1947, in Charlotte, North Carolina. Their home is
in Stoneville, North Carolina.
1926

Charles B. Buford was married to Miss Olivette Holmes,
on July 5, 1947, in Knoxville, Tennessee.

1928

Howard B. Busold was married to Miss Dorothy Florence
Morris on June 27, 1947, in Orange, New Jersey.

1930

George Minor Lynn was married to Miss Edith Winifred
Goerdeler on June 1, 1947, in Los Angeles, California.

1934

George Douglas McClure was married to Miss Mary Jean
Kirwan on July 19, 1947, in Dallas, Texas.

Knight Laird was married to Miss Virginia Louise Kiech
on June 12, 1947, in Jonesboro, Arkansas.

1935

Dr. Sidney Lyons was married to Miss Josephine Baldauf
on June 22, 1947, in Evansville, Indiana.

1936

Graham Sale, Jr.. was married to Miss Mary Wilson
Carver on July 26, 1947, in Charleston, West Virginia.

1937

S. Tilford Payne, Jr., was married to Miss Anne M. Brown
on April 26, 1947, in Fort Worth, Texas.

1938

Wilfred J. Ritz was married to Miss Sue Leslie Pearce of
Norton, Virginia, in Lee Chapel, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, on July 26, 1947.

Dr. Floyd R. Mays, Jr., was married to Miss Pauline
Martha Schultz on August 15, 1947, in Holton, Kansas.

John Grant Tomlin was married to Miss Dorothy Dean
Revenaugh on June 21, 1947, in Wyoming, Ohio.

John Willis Merritt was married to Miss Jean Phillips
Elliott on May 22, 1947, in St. Luke’s Episcopal Chapel,
Manila, Philippine Islands.

1939

Charles H. Semple, Jr., and Miss Douglas Peirce Morton
were married on January 23, 1947.

Frederick Bartenstein, Jr. was married to Miss Isabel An-
derson on May 31, 1947, at “Sunnyside,” Lexington, Virginia.

1941

Newell Charlton Gilbert was married to Miss Mary Porter
Jordan on June 7, 1947, in New Haven, Connecticut.

[ 26 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1943

Michael McDonald Selzer was married to Miss Lucille
Jean Wertz June 15, 1947, in Lawton, Oklahoma. They will
live in Sidney, Nebraska.

James Carroll Walker was married to Miss Mary Ann
Schuldt on May 15, 1947. They are living at 432 Bacon Avenue,
Webster Groves, Missouri.

Joseph Franklin Ellis, Jr., was married to Miss Mary
Barrett Osborn on June 14, 1947, at Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Lieutenant James William Wheater, USMCR, was mar-
ried to Miss Helen Elizabeth Brennan on March 24, 1947, in
Ridgewood, New Jersey.

1944

Dr. Roland P. Ernst was married to Miss Bette Lou Noll-
man on June 28, 1947, in Kirkwood, Missouri.

R. Bruce Quayle was married to Miss Frances Morgan
June 4, 1947, in Waynesboro, Virginia. They will make their
home at 1047 North Edgewood Avenue, Arlington, Virginia.

1945
Harry H. Orgain, Jr., was married to Miss Hansi Dunzel-
mann on June 28, 1947, in Clarksville, Tennessee.

Ensign Bruce Keener, III, was married to Miss Kathryn
Bateman on June 10, 1947, in the historic Ware Church, Glou-
cester, Virginia. Ensign Keener was graduated from the
United States Naval Academy on June 6.

Jack Call Ware was married to Miss Sheryl Anne Zale-
sky on April 2, 1947, in Cedar Rapids, Lowa.

1946

Robert Orville McDonald was married to Miss Exie Mil-
dred Gregory on June 26, 1947, in Baltimore, Maryland.

1947

McDonald Lee Stephens was married to Miss Mary Eliza-
beth Holmes on July 12, 1947, in Greensboro, North Carolina.
They will live at 5218 St. Charles Avenue, New Orleans.

1949

Lawrence W. Anderson was married to Miss Emmaline
Davis Gillock on June 18, 1947, in Lexington, Virginia. They
will live at 16 Temple Street, Brockton, Massachusetts.

Births
1940

Mr. and Mrs. William M. Read are the parents of a daugh-
ter, Deborah Cooke Read, born March 21, 1947.

Mr. and Mrs. James Hughson Willis, of Greensboro, North
Carolina, have a son, James Hughson Willis, Jr., born at
Danville, Virginia, July 12. Mrs. Willis is the former Anne
Booth, sister of Lea Booth, ’40.

1941
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Woodward, Jr., are the parents of
a son, Stewart Hunt Woodward, Born May 11, 1947.
1942
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Wesley Dobbins are the parents of
a daughter, Anne Pendleton Dobbins, born May 27, 1947.
1943

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Hence Shepard are the parents of a
son, Willis Kinsey Shepard, born May 13, 1947.

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Newnan, Jr., have a son, William
J., III, born June 28, 1947, in Pensacola, Florida.

1944

Captain and Mrs. James Johnstone, III, announce the
birth of Jeanette Scott Johnstone, on March 17, 1947, at the
97th U.S. General Hospital, Frankfort-M, Germany.

In Memoriam

1877

Robert L. Owen, ex-Senator from Oklahoma, died July
19, 1947, in Emergency Hospital, Washington, D.C., at the
age of 91. Mr. Owen, one of Oklahoma’s first two senators,
served in the Upper House from 1907 until 1925. Partly of
Cherokee Indian blood, he devoted his early career to
championing the cause of the American Indians, and helped
them to obtain great financial aid and civic benefits. Mr.
Owen received the M.A. degree from Washington and Lee
in 1877, when he was valedictorian of his class, and the honor-
ary degree of LL.D. in 1908. He had been blind for a number
of years. He was buried in Lynchburg, Virginia, where he was
born on February 2, 1856.

1888

Frank B. Crawford died at his home in Winchester, Vir-

ginia, on May 27, 1947.
1895

John Ingels died August 7, 1947, at his home in Richmond,
Virginia.

Dr. Richard Lee Simpson, former dean of the School of
Dentistry of the Medical College of Virginia, died July 1,
1947, at his home in Richmond, Virginia.

1896
J. W. Lattomus died August 4, 1947, in Wilmington, Dela-

ware.

1901

Dr. Matthew Page Andrews, B.A. ’01, M.A. ’02, Phi Beta
Kappa, author and one of the foremost authorities on Mary-
land history, died in Baltimore, Maryland, on June 20, 1947.
His books included: “A History of the United States,” pub-
lished in 1913; “A Brief History of the United States,” 1916;
“A Heritage of Freedom,” 1918; “American History and Gov-
ernment,” 1921; “History of Maryland, Province and State,”
1929; “The Founding of Maryland,” 1933; and “The Soul of
a Nation, Founding of Virginia and Projection of New Eng-
land,” 1943. His play, “Birth of America,” was written in 1920.

1902

Judge Maurice A. Breckenridge died August 8, 1947, in
Tulsa, Oklahoma.
1907
Vincent M. Miles died August 20, 1947, in Washington,
D. C. He resigned last year as Solicitor of the Post Office De-

, partment. Mr. Miles was one of the first three members of

the Social Security Board, appointed in 1935, and resigned
this position two years later to become a special assistant to
the Attorney General.

Dr. Andrew J. Browning, member of the University of
Oregon, Portland, Oregon, Medical School died May 20, 1947.

1910

Joseph Gassman died June 20, 1947. His home was in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania. (Turn back to page 13)

[ 27 ]

 

 

 

 

Pictures

For HOME or OFFICE
@

® In full color, showing the lawn of the
front campus, may be ordered from the
alumni office in either of two sizes—20x15

and 35x25 inches .... Suitable for home

or office, these pictures are believed to
comprise the most satisfactory art work
ever created to capture the familiar love-
liness of the Washington and Lee campus.

Price: Large size $2.50...small size $1.00.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

