 

 

¢ -)
~~ - one
> -

tt

+

  

ES

—_——

_ Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

:

——

es
»

=x iS ee ri
agen eee

2.

*
A

  
 

JUNE, 1945

 

,
—
a .
Pent a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

That's a big number; it may
represent men, women, chil-
dren, dollars, war bonds or
dead Japs—in this case, it
represents Washington and
Lee Alumni who have neg-
lected to respond to their
Class Agent's letter. If this
applies to you, why notwrite
today ?
IT IS NOT TOO LATE.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, '27, Ho-
tel General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, ‘14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G, Young, ‘40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 21st
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, °37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—w. Goodridge
Sale, ‘24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Company

— INinois—William Fowler Symonds,
'88, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, III.

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, '07, 1426 Clay
treet

Charlotte, North Carolina—John L. Crist, ‘13,
Box 1045

Cleveland, Ohio—Ben F. Fiery, ‘13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Car! V. Harris, '28, P. O.
Box 667
Cee ee: C. H. Wilson, ’24, P.O.

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, '12, 320
East Grand Boulevard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, ‘21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miami, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,’29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,'25,
1 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., '39,
Kentucky Home Life Building

Lynchburg, Virginia—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr.,
'30, Krise Building

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
'87, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. Grimley. ‘21, 7
North ‘Broad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, '30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,'31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jr., ‘29, 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
port Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg, West Virginia—Claude P. Light,

, Court House

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
°34, 3422 Warden Drive

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

meres Y'.- ade P. Robinson, ‘10,
ark Buil

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

ar Os Weer aise’ Carleton E. Jew-
ett, '2 West 41st Street

Roanoke, Sore Courtney King,’21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15,
505 Brady Building

St. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, ‘'32,
5142 Westminster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntington, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer, '36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington D. C.—Lt. (i g.) Frank T. Park-
er, Jr., '29, U.S.N., 1530 Arlington Annex

Waynesboro, Virginia—Sydney G. White, ‘43

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

 

 

Vol. XX JUNE, 1945 No. 4
Feditor... 202.55. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PH eSIACNE: isin 2 scdeis Be Joun W. Dryer, 1920
Vice-President.......... Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Secretary...........00.. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer............. P. C. WuirtLock, 192%

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

RosBert P. Hogson, 1914
Ki WixtiaMms, 1915
Joun W. DryeE, 1920
J. W. Mitnegr, 1915
P. C. Wurttock, 1929

THos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913

IEON W. Harris, 1915

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Progress

in Bicentennial Plans

(The President's Page)

/

 

From three significant days, March 10 through March 12,
much of the official conversation on the campus, and most
of the unofficial, centered in Bicentennial plans.

* * *

On Thursday the 10th a joint committee of Alumni, Trus-
tees and Faculty sat for many hours in the Annie White room
of our library. Representing the alumni on this occasion
were President Ki Williams of Waynesboro, Chairman C. T.
Chenery of New York, Walter A. McDonald of Cincinnati,
William A. Wright of Richmond, and Fred McWane of
Lynchburg. The Trustees present included Rector Herbert
Fitzpatrick, Wm. McC. Martin of St. Louis, Dr. Morrison
Hutcheson of Richmond, James R. Caskie of Lynchburg, Jo-
seph T. Lykes of New York, Clarence Avery of Chattanooga,

and Homer A. Holt of Charleston, West Virginia. For the
faculty the attending members were Dr. L. J. Desha, Deans
R. H. Tucker and F. J. Gilliam, Dr. L. W. Smith, Dr. W. G.
Sean, and Professor John A. Graham. The President and the
Treasurer were among those present. The only absent mem-
bers of the group—and these had been present at an earlier
meeting—were Trustee John W. Davis of New York, Trus-
tee Huston St. Clair of Tazewell, and Alumni representative
Charles Watkins of Pittsburgh.

 

* * *

| have called these names largely to demonstrate the com-
petence and the distribution of the group that sat in confer-
ence. It was one of the most thoughtful and devoted assem-
blages that | have ever known to gather here—or anywhere
else.
* * *

On the next day, the Board of Trustees met and gave
general approval to the recommendations of the joint com-
mittee. On Saturday, this being the 12th, the Alumni Board
heard the recommendations and offered endorsement of a
eeneral but most sincere nature.

* * *

When, after a few details have been set in order, these
plans are formally announced, every alumnus, I believe, will
agree that they include intelligence and courage in unusual
measure.

ee eet ie

In the meantime, though I think thts fact is well known, a
conscientious committee acting for the faculty and the ad-
ministration is making a study of the future of the Univer-
sity as an agency for instructional and spiritual efficiency.
No man can say that Washingten and Lee is not bringing
the entire future under closest survey.

x * *

Back to the Bicentennial as such—we shall have a mighty
story to tell, the achievement of two centuries. Not many
colleges can report on work for so long a time. We hope to
center this report in a general theme, Washington and Lee’s
contribution to the nation. We shall have a great thesis to
present to thoughtful men everywhere, the importance of the
independent college in any kind of future that may await us,
an institution committed to public service but free from all
sectarian or political controls. We shall have a large request
to make of all who, thrilling with pride in the past and sharing
in the confidence of the future, would make Washington and
lee adequate for the next century or two of its effort.

ve @714< tm ¢

President

[ 4]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John W. Drye, New President

of Alumni Association

John W. Drye, Jr., New York attorney, was elected pres-
ident of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., at a meeting
of the Alumni Board of Trustees held at the University on
Friday and Saturday, May 11 and 12. Other officers chosen
were: Thomas S. Kirkpatrick of Lynchburg as vice-president,
and P. C. Whitlock of Covington as treasurer, for a second
term.

Mr. Kirkpatrick and Mr. Leon Harris of Anderson, South
Carolina, were elected to the Alumni Board of Trustees at a
general meeting the Alumni Association on Saturday,
May 12.

Mr. Drye, a native of Van Alstyne, Texas, is a member of
the New York law firm of Rathbone, Perry, Kelley and Drye.
In 1920 he received a bachelor of law degree from the Univer-
sity, where he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and
Sigma Chi fraternities and of the baseball team of 1919-20. He
served as a lieutenant of infantry in World War I.

ot

A native of Lynchburg where he now lives, Mr. Kirkpatrick
is head of the law firm of Kirkpatrick, Howard and Burks.
After receiving an A.B. degree in 1913, and an LL.B. degree
in 1915, he saw six months service with the army along the
Mexican border in 1916, and in 1918 he was employed by the
Department of Justice. While a student at Washington and
Lee he was a member of the Delta Tau Delta and Phi Delta
Phi fraternities, P.A.N., Sigma, President the Cotillion
Club, and Manager of Baseball.

of

Mr. Harris, an LL.B. of 1915, who was with the 3lst di-
vision in World War I, has been secretary to the late Sena-
tor B. R. Tillman of South Carolina and for two terms was
solicitor general of the 10th Judicial District of South Caro-
lina. He was a member of the foctball team of 1914-1915.

Other members of the Alumni Board of Trustees are: Ki
Williams, Wilmington, Delaware; Robert P. Hobson, Louis-
ville, Kentucky; J. W. Milner, Gulfport, Mississippi; and
Messrs. Drye and Whitlock. The membership terms of John
L. Crist, Charlotte, North Carolina, Lt. (j.g.) Richard T.
Edwards, Roanoke, and Roger J. Bear, Cincinnati, have just
expired.

Local Association Notes
WAYNESBORO, VIRGINIA

Sidney G. White, ’20, was elected president of the Waynes-
boro, Virginia, chapter of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association when it met at his home on April 24 for a social
hour and discussion of post war problems at the University.
He succeeded W. C. Raftery, °16, as head of the local organi-
zation. Eugene Johnson, °31, and Bruce Quayle, °44, were
elected secretary and treasurer, respectively.

Ki Williams, °15, plant manager of the Waynesboro works
of the DuPont Company, and president of the general Alumni
Association, discussed briefly post war problems at the Uni-
versity and stressed especially the need for intercollegiate ath-
letics.

# * *

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

The Charlotte, North Carolina, alumni chapter of Wash-
and Lee University met at Efird’s Restaurant on
Problems of private educational institutions in war-

ington
May 4.

5

 

John W. Drye, Jr., ’20

time, future of the school in peacetime, alumni support, ath-
letics, and other subjects were discussed. The following alum-
ni were present: John L. Crist, "13; William Porter, ’33; Dr.
Roy McKnight, 14; Dr. Holmes Rolston, ’20; Dr. Samuel
McP. Glasgow, ’03:; Tom Glasgow, °12; E. P. Coles, ’94; R.
Maurice Frew, °'23; James W. Wilkinson, ’24; George Wil-
kinson, ’260; Wilton Garrison, ’28; Taylor B. Harrison, ‘12;
Philip F. Howerton, ’25; Robert A. Wellons, '16; and Roy
McKnight, Jr.

Dr. Gaines Addresses Birmingham
Rotary Club

Dr. Francis P. Gaines addressed the Birmingham, Ala-
bama, Rotary Club on April 25, as the guest of Henry P.
Johnston, ’29. The following Washington and Lee men were
present, also as guests of Mr. Johnson, which made the meet-
ing much like an alumni gathering: William L. Hoge, 713;
R. M. Jenkins, Jr., ’24; Sorsby Jemison, 09; D. N. Walker, ’38:
Borden Burr, 98; Walter Hood, '10; C. S. Henley, ’11; P. W.
Turner, “08; K. W. Sevier, °10; C. H. Burke, ’09: William
Hellier, "24; E. M. Streit, ’28; Bill Streit, °10; Edward Aull,
‘23; Jim Bryan, ’21; C. C. Holcombe, ’16; J. S. Moore, ’14:
Darby Brown, ’25; John Coe, ’25; Charlie Allison, ’26; and
Allen Rushton, ’25.

|

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

[6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1

Major’ John O. McNeel, ’31, receiving the Bronze Star
from Brigadier General Joseph I. Martin, Fifth Army Sur-
geon. Major McNeel is serving with the 170th Evacuation
Hospital.

2

Lt. Paul C. Thomas, Jr., 42, son of Paul C. Thomas, ’15,
was awarded the Silver Star for gallantry on January 16, 1945,
in Belgium. He has served in England, Wales, France, Hol-
land, Belgium, and is now in Germany. The citation reads
in part: “An enemy tank was holding up the attack of his
company and it was not expedient to call for artillery fire due
to the proximity of other friendly units. At great risk of life,
Lt. Thomas entered a tank destroyer vehicle and deliberately
fired at the tank to draw its fire. This heroic action enabled
friendly tanks to move into position to destroy the enemy.”
Home: Happy Valley Farm, RFD 1, Box 405, Bluefleld, West
Virginia.

3

First Lt. John B. Atkins, Jr., 45, a bombardier in a Fif-
teenth Air Force Flying Fortress, flew his 35th sortie on
March 9, 1945, over the railroad yards at Vruck, Austria.
He is the leading bombardier of his squadron and has flown
the lead plane of his group on seven different missions. He
has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air
Medal with three oak leaf clusters, and is authorized to wear
the European-African-Middle East Theatre Ribbon with one
campaign star. Home: 3321 Centenary Boulevard, Shreve-
port, Louisiana.

4

Captain Thomas B. Ballard *45, son of Byron L. Ballard,
LL.B. °12, is one of the relatively few Americans ever to re-
ceive the Chinese Grand Star of Honor Medal, it was re-
vealed in a dispatch directly from that area. Capt. Ballard is
cn duty at a field installation of the Chinese combat command.
Americans of the Chinese combat command, under Major
General R. B. McClure, work closely with Chinese armies,
divisions and smaller units under General Ho Hing-chin,
supreme commander of the Chinese army, in the war against
Japan’s great continental military power in China.

The mission of the CCC is to advise and assist Chinese
forces in prosecuting aggressive warfare against the Japanese.
This liaison is concerned primarily with the planning and
execution of field training and technical operations, and with
the receipt, distribution and assignment of American equip-
ment and supplies for Chinese military units.

As a member of the CCC, Capt. Ballard has for some time
been engaged primarily in teaching Chinese troops the meth-
ods of modern warfare.

Capt. Ballard was presented with the Chinese Grand Star
of Honor Medal for outstanding and distinguished service
given by him to the republic of China and to the Chinese
army, upon recommendation of the Chinese general officer
commanding a unit with which this American was on duty for
an extended period. He entered the service in April, 1942,
and served in various camps in this country before being or-
dered overseas in December, 1942.

Cited for Gallantry

Major George M. Foote, ’40, has been awarded the Silver
Star Medal for gallantry and intrepidity in reconnoitering and
mapping a route of approach through a Japanese mine field
to Cabras Island for vehicles of his amphibious tractor bat-
talion during the battle for Guam. The tractors for which
Foote, then a Captain, chose and mapped the route were
assigned to carry Third Marine Division troops from Guam
to the off-shore island. He landed with an early assault wave
on Guam and fought in the front lines throughout the day
and night. The next day he went forward in advance of the
troops and, in a contested area, selected and mapped a mine-
free route across the causeway from Guam to Cabras Island.
The subsequent assault on Cabras, carried out with slight
loss of men and equipment, was a success.

6

Lt. Thomas W. Mehler, ’35, has been awarded the Silver
Star for gallantry in France. He was cited for evacuating
wounded infantrymen from an area being heavily shelled and
sprayed with rifle fire. According to the citation accompanying
the award: “The courageous and voluntary actions on the
part of Lt. Mehler greatly assisted in saving these wounded
soldiers from death or possible capture. His gallant act was
in keeping with the highest traditions of the military service.”
A forward observer with the 460th Parachute Field Artillery,
Lt. Mehler wears three battle stars, in addition to his newly
achieved Silver Star. An arrowhead on Mehler’s European
Theatre Ribbon testifies to his part in the Airborne Invasion
of Southern France on August 15, 1944. Home: Waynesboro,
Virginia.

7

Lt. William Shuler Burns, ’38, was presented with the Navy
Cross in a formal ceremony held at Squantum, Massachu-
setts, on March 15, 1945. The citation reads: “For distinguish-
ing himself by extraordinary heroism as pilot of a carrier
based torpedo bomber in operations against major enemy
fleet forces in the vicinity of the Central Philippine Islands
on October 24, 1944. With utter disregard for his own safety
he led his division through extremely intense and accurate
anti-aircraft fire to make successful torpedo attacks on an
enemy cruiser. Pressing his own attack to close range he
scored a hit, causing certain damage. His courage and ex-
emplary leadership were at all times in keeping with the high-
est traditions of the United States Naval Services.”

Commander Allen Harris, ’27, USNR, was among four of-
ficers serving under Rear Admiral Ainsworth, USN com-
ander of destroyers and cruisers of the Pacific Fleet, decorated
by Admiral Ainsworth in ceremonies held at Pearl Harbor
on June 2, 1945. Officer in charge of anti-submarine warfare
training for Admiral Ainsworth’s command, he received the
Legion of Merit Medal for outstanding service as chief staff
and operations officer for a destroyer squadron commander
from October 6, 1944, to February 8, 1945. During this period
Commander Harris’ squadron participated in four major am-
phibious assaults and one major night torpedo attack against
the enemy. Home: Orchard Place, Johnson City, Tennessee.

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Henry P. Johnston, ’29

 

Henry Johnston Moves Up

Henry P. Johnston, Editor-in-chief of “The Ring-tum Phi”
in 1929, was elected Executive Vice-President of The Bir-
mingham News Company, Birmingham, Alabama, at a meet-
ing of the Board of Directors on Tuesday, March 13, 1945.

While attending Washington and Lee University, Mr.
Johnston served on the staff of “The Ring-tum Phi” from
1926 until his graduation in 1929. In 1928 he was Managing
Editor and in 1929 he became Editor-in-chief. He also served
as Assistant Director of Athletic Publicity in 1927 and 1928,
Official Scorer of the Basketball Tournaments in 1927 and
1928, and in 1929 he was Vice-President of the White Friars;
President of Sigma Delta Chi; a member of the Publication
Board and Finals Week Committee.

On graduating from Washington and Lee University he
became affliated with the Kelly-Smith Company in New
York as a salesman, remaining there until 1930. In 1930 he
returned to Birmingham and became associated with the Na-
tional Advertising Department of The Birmingham News.

After a year in the National Advertising Department of
The Birmingham news, Mr. Johnston transferred to The
Huntsville Times where he served as President and Pub-
lisher until 1934.

On leaving The Huntsville Times, of which he is still Pres-
ident, he returned to The Birmingham News as Local Ad-
vertising Manager and served in this capacity until March,
1937, when he became General Manager of Radio Station

WSGN, owned and operated by The Birmingham News
Company.

In January of 1936 he was elected Vice-President of The
Birmingham News Company and in 1941 he became a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors. He has served on the Executive
Committee of The Birmingham News since 1939.

Mr. Johnston has also served on the Board of Directors of
the Planters and Merchants Bank, Uniontown, Alabama, for
the past two years, and as a member of the Blue Network
Planning and Advisory Board Committee for the second
time.

Recently Mr. Johnston has been serving as Class Agent
for the Class of 1929, Washington and Lee University.

Mr. Johnston is a member of the Rotary Club, Birmingham
Country Club, Sales Executive Club, Ad Club, Aero Club,
Birmingham Chamber of Commerce and the Alabama Cham-
ber of Commerce.

Lee Manuscripts Presented to Library

Two Lee mauscripts from the Taylor Collection have been
presented to Washington and Lee University and have been
placed in its R. E. Lee Archives, Dr. Allen W. Moger, di-
rector, has announced. They are gifts of Walter H. Taylor of
Norfolk, who was a member of Gen. Robert E. Lee’s staff.

One manuscript, General Order No. 103, dated Dec. 7, 1863,
when Lee knew that Sherman’s catastrophic march to the
sea was imminent, ordered all except necessary army duties
suspended on Dec. 10, and thanked God for His mercies so
signally extended to the army. Affirming his faith in provi-
dence as he did many times, Lee supplicated, “Enable us to
bow submissively to His holy will.”

Indicative that Gen. Lee planned a history of the war,
the second manuscript, a letter addressed to Col. Taylor on
July 31, 1865, requested data about the strength of the Army
of Virginia in its different engagements. Most of the battle
reports had been destroyed on the retreat from Petersburg.
Five days later, on Aug. 5, Washington College elected Lee
to its presidency, which office he accepted conditionally on
Aug. 24. His appointment as president of the college which
was later to bear his name, together with his failing strength
and his abhorrence for making money by capitalizing on the
story of the American strife, perhaps deterred him from writ-
ing the history.

AN ALUMNUS GETS THE ADDRESS
OF AN “UNLOCATED”

“The sister of the wife of the cousin of one of my cousins
married ...’s brother; and at my request, my cousin wrote
her cousin-in-law, asked for the address. The cousin-in-law
promptly sent it; but the note contained some family news,
and my cousin left it on the table for her mother and sister
to see. The note vanished. The cook also vanished. Nobody,
however, connected the two events. My cousin wrote again
to the cousin-in-law, and this time enclosed a card addressed
to me; I have not yet received it. When I do, I will send it
to Lexington. Well, the new cook at last found the note; in
the breadbox, of all places. Thinking that the cousin-in-law by
this time must have sent me the address, my cousin has prob-
ably destroyed the note. I hope the alumni office appreciates
the trouble we have had to get one address—which we have
not yet got.”

Note: We do appreciate the trouble.

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

lst Lt. Franklin James Byrd, ’38

 

Casualties

1938

First Lt. F. James Byrd, Army Fer-
ry Command, was killed on March 3,
1943. He was on his sixth trip over-
seas when the plane burst into flames
and all on board were killed. He was
buried near Acaralm, Brazil. This has
only recently been reported to the
Alumni Office.

1943

Lt. Francis W. Lowry was killed in
action with the U.S. Marines in the
battle of Iwo Jima on February 20,
1945. In a year of service in the Pa-
cific, Lt. Lowry had participated in
several campaigns, including Saipan,
where he was cited by Admiral Chester
W. Nimitz for bravery and devotion to
duty under fire. In the battle of Saipan,
Lt. Lowry was an officer messenger
engaged in carrying vital orders to
front line units of the Fourth Marine Lt.
Division. He graduated magna cum

laude from Washington and Lee University, receiving the B.A.

 

Francis W. Lowry, °43

degree, and was

a member of Kappa Alpha and Phi Beta Kappa. His mother, Mrs. D. M. Lowry, lives at 323 East Park Ave., Tallahassee, Fla.

1945

Lt. Joe Higgins Bagley was killed in action on February 23, 1945. He was shot down by ack-ack fire from a Jap destroyer

 

in the Philippine area. He was married on July 9, 1945. He was the son of Charles F. Bagley, Class of 1907.

 

In Memoriam

1883
Clifford C. Dunn died suddenly at his home in Scottsville,
Virginia, on April 25, 1944.
1889
Rev. James Taylor McCaa died December 31, 1944.

J. L. Bumgardner died September 10, 1944.

1891

Frank Boude Kennedy died February 24, 1945, at his home
in Staunton, Virginia.
1892

Harry A. Moore died February 1, 1945.

1893

Harry Albert Albright died October 4, 1944, at his home
in Columbus, Mississippi.

Herbert J. Taylor died at his home in Staunton, Virginia,
on May 9, 1945.
1894
Rev. Archer Boogher died at his home in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, on February 28, 1945.

Morton K. Yonts died in 1944.

at the home of his

James N. Veech died April 24, 1945,
daughter in Louisville, Kentucky.

1898
Robert H. Turner died May 25, 1944.
1902
Ammen L. Burger died July 25, 1944.
1906

Albert Steves, Jr., died in Johns-Hopkins Hospital, Balti-
more, Maryland, on June 7, 1945, from complications which
developed when a chicken bone punctured his esophagus, an
infection resulting. He and Mrs. Steves and three of their
five sons had gone to Annapolis to attend the graduation
exercises of a son, Ensign Marshall T. Steves, ’44, from the
Naval Academy on Wednesday, June 6.

“Kid,” as he was affectionately called while a student here,
had lived in San Antonio, Texas, for most of his life. At the
time of his death, he was president of Ed Steves and Sons,
and Steves Sash and Door Company of San Antonio, and a
leader in church, social and civic activities in that city.

A Washington and Lee family of many years standing, the
first Steves, Albert Sr., entered here in 1874; his two sons,
Albert, Jr., A.B. 06, and Walter, ’14, (died in 1935); Albert,
Jr.’s sons, Capt. Albert, III, B.A. ’30, (now with the Army
of Occupation in Germany); Sam Bell, ’33, and Major Walter,
°39, (who has recently returned to this country after having

[9 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

escaped when he was shot down over the Balkans). Another
grandson of Albert Steves, Sr., Lt. Charles Ganahl Walker,
Jr., B.S. °40, is a son of Mrs. Stella Steves Walker.

Clyde Raymond Davis died October 6, 1944, suddenly, at
work with war effort of Clinton Engineer Works, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.

1907

William K. Ramsey died April 3, 1945, as the result of a
heart attack, in El Paso, Texas.

1908

W. H. Marquess died at his home in Decatur, Georgia, on
December 12, 1944.

1912

James Coburn Pickens, of Washington, D. C., died Janu-
ary 20, 1945.

1914

Judge Howell Moffete Tanner died October 27, 1944, at
his home in Bluefield, West Virginia.

1915

Howard C. Stuck died suddenly of a heart attack on May 13,
1945. His home was in Jonesboro, Arkansas.

1918

F. Bryan Potter died suddenly at his home in Washington,
D. C., on December 14, 1943.

1921

C. C. Hileman died suddenly of a heart attack on January 8,
1945, at his home in Greensburg, Pennsylvania.

1925

Peter W. Mullins died in May, 1945, and was buried at
Martinsville, Virginia.
1927

Roscoe Burns Thomas died suddenly on February 16, 1945,
at his home in Charleston, West Virginia.

Marriages

1933

Lt. George F. Parsons, U.S. Army, was married Decem-
ber 23, 1944, to Ella Rose Patain of Lafayette, Louisiana.

1935

William Schuhle was married to Mary Elizabeth Martin on
June 15, 1945, in the First Methodist Church of Olathe, Kan-
sas. They will live in Adrian, Michigan, where Bill will be
teaching in Adrian College.

1938
Lt. Charles Fenton Clarke, Jr., was married to Virginia

Gray Schoppenhorst on April 3, 1945, in Louisville, Kentucky,

Thomas Drake Durrance was married to Caroline Ihrie Pou
Wadden on March 15, 1945, at the Congressional Club, Wash
ington, D. C. :

1939

Lt. Charles Luther Guthrie, Jr.. was married to Dorothy
Klizabeth Ayer on January 28, 1945, in Leghorn, Italy.

1940

Joseph Addison Billingsley, Jr., was married to Sarah Jane
Glover on April 4, 1945.

Captain Michael Pue Crocker, U.S. Marine Corps, was
married to Miss Rosa Tucker Fletcher on June 11, 1945, in
R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, Lexington, Virginia.
Capt. Crocker is an A.B. of 1940, Phi Beta Kappa, Captain of
Cross Country, 1939, Co-Captain of Track in 1940; and has
been in service in the Pacific. Miss Fletcher is the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Forest Fletcher of Lexington, Virginia.

1941
Lt. Alvin T. Fleishman, U.S. Naval Reserve, was married
to Florence Rosalie Gesetz on March 18, 1945, in New York
City.
Robert Lawrence Van Wagoner was married to Marian
Ellen Stevens on June 17, 1945, in Catonsville, Maryland.

Lt. (j.g.) Macey H. Rosenthal, Medical Corps, United States
Naval Reserve, was married to Lila Abrash on June 10, 1945,
in New York City.

1942

Lt. Joseph Aubrey Matthews, U.S. Naval Reserve, was
married to Helen Frances DeBusk on April 29, 1945, in Salt-
ville, Virginia.

1943

First Lt. Lawton McCandless, United States Air Force,
was married to Vivian Evelyn Matson on June 4, 1945, in
DeKalb, Illinois.

1943

Ensign William Joseph Noonan, Jr., was married to Mar-
garet Ponder Loving on May 23, 1945, in West Point, Miss-
iSSippi.

Lt. (j.g.) Houston Magill Kimbrough was married to Nan-
cy Craige Summers on April 12, 1945, in the Riverside
Church, New York City.

Ensign Harry Clyde Keller was married to Wada Phyllis
Wade on April 28, 1945, in Roanoke, Virginia. In the wed-
ding ceremony were Wallace Ebe, ’42, best man, Lt. (j.g.)
Larry Galloway, ’43, and Pete Crook, ’42, groomsmen.

1945
Lt. (j.g.) Parker W. Rogers, U.S.

married to Jane Lee Lewis of Marianna,
March 3, 1945.

Naval Air Corps, was
Arkansas, on

Births
1939
S/Sgt. and Mrs. John Lillard Davis have a son, Stephen
McKinley Davis, born May 2, 1945, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Lt. and Mrs. John Bentley Pearson have a daughter, Bar-
bara Ann, born December 24, 1944.

1940

Lt. and Mrs. Robert Cochran Hobson, of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, are the parents of a daughter, Marian Elizabeth Hob-
son, born January 8, 1945,

[10]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1876

in 1890-91. Mr. Gaines says

 

Mr. T. F. Turley (not an
alumnus of W. and L.), of
Memphis, Tennessee, writes
that he has been reading the
February issue of The Alum-
ni Magazine. His office mate,
for the past forty years, has
been Mr. Thomas Raymond
Boyle who was in the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School
from 1874 to 1876. Mr. Tur-
ley says: “He is 91 years of

 

Class notes in the five issues of THE ALUMNI MAG-
AZINE, beginning with October each year, are com-
piled from the letters received by the Class Agents dur-
ing the previous spring and summer. In this issue we
are using as many notes as possible about alumni serving
with the armed forces, feeling that much of this in-
formation will soon be out of date. Home addresses
are given in most cases with the hope that letters
will be written to them and forwarded promptly.

the man who had the great-
est inflence on his life was
John Randolph Tucker.

1892
William G. Wiglesworth

is Vice-President of Wigles-
worth Tobacco Warehouse
Company, Cynthiana, Ken-
tucky. He has a son in the
U.S. Navy and a daughter
in Government service.

 

 

age and in pretty good health

too. What a record; what a man!” Mr. Turley also practiced
law in Denver, Colorado, and knew Judge Julius C. Gunter,
at that time Governor of Colorado, who is also a member of
the Class of 18706.

1887

W. T. Armstrong is the senior member of the law firm of
Armstrong, Cranford, Barker and Bedfors, American Nation-
a! Insurance Building, Galveston, Texas.

1889

C. H. Gilkeson, Fairfield, Virginia, a faithful alumnus of
Washington and Lee, writes that he is in his eightieth year,
“having lived a fairly happy life due largely to good friends,
some of whom I discovered among the professors and stu-
dents of Washington and Lee. I am thoroughly convinced
that the only hope of a better world is through Christian
education and the spread of the Christian way of life over
all the earth.”

1890

A. K. Bowles is with the Consolidated Coal Company, 30
Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York. His name should
have been included in the list of alumni published in the
February issue of The Alumni Magazine as having contrib-
uted to the Alumni Fund each year since it
was started in 1933.

1891

  
 

The Atlanta Constitution of April 8, 1945,
carries a picture of William Winston Gaines, >)
LL.B. of 1891, in connection with a story re-
lating that Mr. Gaines had found among some
old papers a copy of “the first petit jury im-
paneled to try Jefferson Davis.” After delayed
negotiation the case was certified to the Su-
preme Court of the United States and was
never heard from again.

Attorney Gaines considered it a coincidence
that one of Davis’ attorneys was John Ran-
dolph Tucker, of Virginia, professor of con-
stitutional law at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity when Mr. Gaines was a student here

    
   

ne
‘
errees

(crea

1893

Dr. Harry W. Pratt is still teaching full time at Columbia
Bible College, Columbia, South Carolina. When he retires
he is planning to build a home in Lexington, where seven
of his first cousins are living. He was married recently to
Mrs. Walter Coates, of Washington, D. C.

Pliny Fishburne writes from Waynesboro, Virginia, that
he is now on the retired list, but still has a warm spot in his
heart for Washington and Lee and his classmates.

B. F. Combs is a member of the law firm of Combs and
Combs, First National Bank Building, Prestonburg, Ken-
tucky. He has three grandsons, the father of one, now in
France, who has never seen his child. He also has another son
in Persia.

Harrington Waddell, now retired as Superintendent of the
Lexington, Virginia, schools, writes that both of his sons,
Finley, ’29, and Edgar, ’30, are in the service.

1894

W. H. Keister has been re-elected Superintendent of the
Harrisonburg, Virginia public schools for another term of
four years. He has agreed to accept the position for one more
year, perhaps two, if his health is good. This is Mr. Keister’s
fifty-first year as head of the Harrisonburg schools. He Says:
“In all the years there has never been a time that I did not
feel thankful that it was my privilege to at-
tend Washington and Lee and never have I
failed to sing her praises and do what I could,
in a modest way, toward her advancement.
I can never repay the debt I owe for the four
years I spent on that campus.”

Preston J. Beale is now retired and is living
at Greenfield Farm, Amsterdam, Virginia. He
spends the winters in Florida.

Captain John Carmichael is Superintendent
of Stores of the Western Maryland Railway
Company. His home is in Hagerstown, Mary-
land.

M. H. Guerrant spends his summers in
Louisville, Kentucky, and his winters in Uma-
tilla, Florida.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1895

Lyne S. Smith lives at 441 West 7th Street, Erie, Pennsyl-
vania. He gets back to the campus frequently and is a most
helpful and enthusiastic alumnus.

George R. Hunt is a member of the law firm of Hunt,
Bush & Lisle, Trust Company Building, Lexington, Ken-
tucky. He has practiced law continuously in Lexington, Ken-
tucky, since graduation from Washington and Lee.

1897

David H. Leake is one of the general attorneys of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, Richmond, Virginia.

Dr. Charles F. Myers has recently retired as minister of
the Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, North Carolina, after
twenty-five years service.

1898

Borden Burr is a member of the law firm of Benners, Burr,
Stokely & McKamy, Brown-Marx Building, Birmingham 3,
Alabama. He says that he hopes before long that his class
can have a reunion in Lexington. He has recently had pleas-
ant contacts with Alban G. Snyder, “who spent so many
years overseas in the diplomatic service. We had a great time
dwelling among old memories and discussing old incidents.
I have also had the opportunity on several personal visits to
Greensboro, North Carolina, to have pleasant visits with Char-
lie Myers. Charlie has recently retired as pastor of the Pres-
byterian Church after a service of some twenty-five or more
years, which has endeared him to everyone in Greensboro,
as well as many other portions of the country. It is rather
difficult to walk the streets of Greensboro with Charlie as
everybody from bootblack to banker, or vice versa, insists on
having a chat with ‘Doctor Charlie.’ ”

Edward A. O’Neal, President of the American Farm Bu-
reau, Class Agent for 1898, attended the United Nations
Security Conference in San Francisco, California.

Dr. Ran T. Shields is now with the Pathological Institute,
University of Tennessee, Memphis, Tennessee, after many
years as a medical missionary in China. He writes: “We have
a ‘luxury’ cottage—all American gadgets—that we never had
in China.” Address: 1745 Linden Avenue, Memphis 4, Tenn.

1902

E. W. G. Boogher is Professor of English and Acting Dean
of Rider College, Trenton, New Jersey. He reports that the
armed services have taken nearly all their boys, but they do
have a fair enrollment of girls in various courses. They are
beginning to get some veterans. They also have four boys
from Iceland and a number from South America. His two
sons are in the Army, and his son-in-law is a bombardier.

1903

R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia, is supervising the
mining of as large a volume of “Black Diamond” out of the
mountains as is humanly possible. He has two granddaughters
and a grandson whose father, R. H. Ruff, ’31, is in the ser-
vice in the South Pacific.

Stuart Chevalier, member of the law firm of Miller, Cheva-
lier, Peeler and Wilson, Title Insurance Building, Los An-

geles, California, has been making a contribution to the gen-
eral cause of international cooperation by speaking on the
subject whenever opportunity has offered. He is the author
of “War's End and After” and is qualified to speak with au-
thority on this subject.

Rev. J. M. B. Gill, who was an Episcopal missionary in
Eastern China for fifteen years; rector of the Episcopal
Church in Petersburg for thirteen years; and now a mission-
ary in the District of Eastern Oregon, has recently been
Acting Executive Secretary for the Missionary District of
Eastern Oregon, at Pendleton, Oregon. He says: “Judging
from The Alumni Magazine the old school has its eyes open
and will undoubtedly measure up to the opportunities and
responsibilities which the post-war period will lay upon our
educational leaders.”

D. V. Guthrie is head of the Department of Physics at
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He has
a son, David Vance, Jr., at Washington and Lee and gets
back to Lexington frequently.

Hillard H. Smith, having practiced law in his home town,
Hindman, Kentucky, since graduation in 1903, retired from
general practice and now takes only the cases of his regular
clients. Last year he accepted the position of Commissioner,
or Director of Banking, “under the efficient and clean Re-
publican Administration,” which position he now holds. He
has six daughters, all married, and six grandsons. Home ad-
dress: 220 East Main Street, Frankfort, Kentucky.

W. J. Turner resigned his job as General Manager of the
Braden Copper Mines in Chile last June and says he is now
on a sort of semi-retired basis as Consulting Engineer to the
parent corporation here in the States. As he was born in
Little Rock, Arkansas, and has all sorts of kin-folk there,
he and his wife have decided trying living there for a time, at
least. His older son has been on a submarine in the Pacific
for over a year. He is a Lt. (j.g.), and the grapevine is that
he will be back in the States within a few weeks, as his pig
boat has had a good deal of drastic service and is in need of
extensive overhauling. His second son is a corporal in an
Engineer Battalion somewhere in Germany. Address: 2309
Beechwood Road, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow has resigned his pas-
torate in the Old Independent Presbyterian Church in Sa-
vannah, Georgia, and is making his home in Charlotte, North
Carolina, where he is Supply Pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church. Home address: 829 Ardsley Road, Charlotte, North
Carolina.

J. W. (*“Oom Paul’) Bagley is still lecturing and teaching
in the Harvard Institute of Geographical Exploration, but
thinks of retiring “when the war is over.”

1905

Dexter Hobbie is President of Hobbie Brothers Company,
Inc., musical supplies, Roanoke, Virginia. He says his is one
of the few retail companies which has not profited by the war
as all the piano, organ and radio factories have either closed
or gone one hundred per cent into war work.

Dr. Robert A. Lapsley, Jr., has been pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church in Roanoke, Virginia, for the past fif-
teen vears.

[ 12 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1906

William L. Hoge, Heyburn Building, Louisville, Ken-
tucky, writes that he formed William L. Hoge & Company,
Inc., for war work and it is doing well. He would like to have
a reunion next year.

B. J. Mayer is practicing law in LaGrange, Georgia. His
only son is in the armed services and has been overseas in the
Southwest Pacific area for the past year.

H. Clyde Pobst still practices law in Grundy, Virginia. His
two sons are in the service, the eldest returning home re-
cently after six months in South America. His daughter and
two lovely grandchildren are living at home while her hus-
band is in the service. He says he is blessed with health,
strength and vigor.

Lucius Junius Desha, Bayly Professor of Chemistry at
Washington and Lee, has recently moved his home from
the lower campus to what is known as the Lee-Jackson Home,
adjoining the President’s residence.

Charles A. Dunlap, of Wellington, Kansas, reports that he
has been awfully busy this spring. He is a wheat grower. He
reports that they move large numbers of troop trains and
war materials both east and west.

Clarence Edwin Wallace is still in the Money Order Sec-
tion of the Postoffice, where he has been for the past eighteen
years. His only son is an instructor in gunnery in the service.
His home is at 627 Beacon Street, Manchester, New Hamp-
shire.

Ed Lea Davis is a member of the Rose-Davis Realty Com-
pany, Flat Iron Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He says:
“I never forget to give Washington and Lee my foremost
thought in matters that might work advantageously to the
University’s interest.”

1907

W. L. Lord reports that he has been working harder than
ever before in his twenty-eight years at Woodberry Forest
School, Woodberry Forest, Virginia. Since so many of the
younger teachers have been dropping out to go into the ser-
vice, the older men have had to assume many added duties.

1908

W. H. Jackson, Class Agent for 1908-Law, is a member
of the law firm of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Fergu-
son, First National Bank Building, Tampa 1, Florida.

Alonzo B. McMullen is a member of the law firm of
McMullen and Draper, First National Bank Building, Tampa,
Florida, and at the same time devotes substantial time to
his citrus grove in the country, as he says: “I think a man
getting along my age should get as close to Mother Earth
as he can.” He adds: “I am thinking that if the life of
Robert E. Lee could so inspire Charles Francis Adams, a
Union general, to stand on the rostrum of Lee Memorial
Chapel and deliver his ‘Shall Cromwell Wear a Crown’ trib-
ute, how much would be contributed to the cause of world
peace, if all leaders in the world affairs could sit and listen
to such an address.”

H. R. Mahler is Superintendent of Schools, Thomasyille,
Georgia. He has two sons in the service, Stuart in a com-
mando unit, and Thomas in an amphibious force.

Robert J. Reveley ™

has been granted leave
of absence from his
teaching duties in
Canton, North Caro-
lina, and is now living
on his farm, R.F.D.,
Lexington, Virginia.

Rev. William  P.
Hooper, D.D., is Min-
ister of the Highlawn
Presbyterian Church,
Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, where he_ has
just completed his
twenty-fifth year. He
has a grandson, Tim-
othy Hooper Kimery,
two years old.

 

Comdr. Lindsay R. Henry, ’25, and

Lt. (j.g.) Calvin East, °43, at Ex-

eter, Devon. (See Class Note on
page 17)

Harry Gassman lives at 6432 Kennedy, Cincinnati 13, Ohio,
His daughter is now a registered nurse and has volunteered
for service either with the Army or Navy.

William S. Graham is still in the coal business with offices
at 604 Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk, Virginia. Both his
sons are in the service, the older a Lt. (j.g.) USNR, and the
younger a private in the Army.

Henry M. (Burly) White is President of The North Ameri-
can Oil Company, Fidelity Building, Baltimore, Maryland.
His son, Henry M., Jr., is at Camp Crowder, Missouri.

Edwin H. McGill is back at work with the New Mexico
State Highway Department in Albuquerque, New Mexico,
after being with the U.S. Engineers for a year and a half
and with the Public Roads Administration on Alaska High-
way for six months. His daughter is with the American Red
Cross in Natal, Brazil.

1909

George Dominick is with the Sherwin-Williams Company,
Knoxville, Tennessee, and has a district in East Kentucky
and Southwest Virginia, his division leading in sales. He has
four children, three boys and one girl, all finished college and
all married. He says he has seven grandchildren and is still a
young man.

1910

-H. A. (“Tubby”) Derr is continuing his activities as Pres-
ident of Vanguard Paints and Finishes, Inc., Marietta, Ohio,
serving actively in the war effort. His contact with many di-
verse industries has impressed him with a wholesale apprecia-
tion of the magnitude of the job being done by American in-
dustry in support of the fighting forces. He says: “And yet
I think we all must realize how little we are doing after all
in comparison with what the boys themselves are doing. Let
us trust that the University and her surviving sons may be
strengthened by the adversity of these times and that we
may all try to be more worthy of the sacrifices of the younger
sons who have so greatly served the Nation.”

Rayford W. Alley is a member of the law firm of Alley,
Cole and Grimes, 30 Broad Street, New York. He has two
children—one son, Rayford, Jr., now in the Navy, and a
married daughter living in Charlottesville, Virginia. His son

[13]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

is also married, and each of his children has a child. So he is
twice a grandfather. He says he is thinking seriously of taking
life easier and is contemplating the purchase of a farm in
Virginia, in the environs of Charlottesville.

Charles P. (“Chuck”) Robinson is still President of the
Rusiness Service Company, 806 Park Building, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. He has the menu of the senior banquet of the
Class of 1910, which was held in the McCrum Building, and
the only name signed on the page for autographs is that of
his Class Agent, Wyatt Hedrick.

Rev. James N. Montgomery, after many years work as a
Presbyterian missionary in China, returned to the States on
the Gripsholm, after Pearl Harbor. He is now working in
New Orleans as Field Superintendent of Home Missions for
New Orleans Presbytery. He expects to return to his work
in China after the war. He sends greetings to all Washington
and Lee men but especially to friends of the Class of 1910.
He recently had a weekend in the home of Guyte McCord,
"10-L, in Tallahassee, Florida, where he is the Clerk of the
Supreme Court of the State.

Joseph R. Blackburn says there is not much news of his
activities. He is still well and living in the same place, 1714
McClung Street, Charleston, West Virginia. His son is now
a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy.

James M. Carson is living on his farm, “Caruja,”’ Kenans-
ville, Osceola County, Florida, having developed an allergy
to salt water, necessitating his moving thirty miles inland
from Miami, where he had practiced law for many years.
His health is much better now.

Col. V. P. Sydenstricker was one of four doctors in the
United States appointed a full Colonel in the Army and work-
ing directly for the Surgeon General. He is still in Europe
working on the nutrition problem. Home: 2110 Gardner
Street, Augusta, Georgia.

1911

Brown Truslow is still with Coyle & Richardson, Charles-
ton, West Virginia. Both of his daughters are married,, one
husband in the Army and the other in the Navy. He says his
main desire in life is to see them reunited after the war and
then he intends to “hibernate” as life is too strenuous for him.

James P. Barclay is Assistant General Manager of The
Pure Oil Company, Northwestern Division, Pure Oil Build-
ing, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

Fred P. Guthrie is still District Communications Manager
for R.C.A., 1112 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington,
D. C. He reports a tremendous business on account of the war.

Herbert B. Gregory is a Judge of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. His two sons are in the Navy and his
daughter is employed by the Navy at Yorktown, Virginia.
His home is in Roanoke, Virginia.

John G. Herndon, head of the Department of Government
at Haverford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania, has written
many books and articles on taxation and constitutional law,
but in the past two years has enlarged the circuit of his writ-
ings. Now the historical angle is appearing. His more recent
contributions have been (1) the life and achievements of the
Reverend John Thomson, a Presbyterian minister from
Northern Ireland; (2) five articles in the William and Mary
College Quarterly and the Virginia Magazine of History and

Biography; and (3) an article in the Annals of the American
Political and Social Science on certain proposals for the pay-
ment of allowances to servicemen after the war.

1913

Lewis Twyman spends his summers in Wingina, Bucking-
ham County, Virginia, and his winters in Miami, Florida.
He says he has been on the sidelines in the practice of law
for the past two years, and thoroughly enjoys the change and
rest.

P. D. Converse laments that the College of Commerce at
the University of Illinois has only girls and 4Fs left as stu-
dents. He has been assigned to Research and Public Rela-
tions work for the College and has been very busy.

John L. (Jack) Crist is President of the Southern Dye-
stuffs Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina. He has just
retired as a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees. He
is helpful in alumni affairs.

Philip P. Gibson is a member of the law firm of Marcum &
Gibson of Huntington, West Virginia. He has many pleasant
recollections of his college days and the “supermen” who
were members of the faculty at that time—‘They were all
strong ‘he’ men and masterful teachers. Such men as Dr.
Currell, Dr. ‘Cutie’ Easter, Dr. ‘Liv’ Smith, Dr. ‘Jack’ Latane,
and Dr. ‘Slouch’ Howerton.”

Harry E. Moran is with the Leccony Smokeless Fuel Com-
pany, and is living at the Beckley Hotel, Beckley, West
Virginia.

1914

Colonel Francis P. Miller has recently been promoted to
this rank at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary
Forces, Paris, France. Col. Miller has received the decoration
of the Legion of Merit.

William T. Lovins, Judge of the Supreme Court of Appeals
of West Virginia, Charleston, West Virginia. He is married
and has a son fifteen years old, who is a student in the Char-
leston High School. Judge Lovins has served four years and
three months of a twelve year term, of which he is now
president; has been chairman of the Judicial Council of the
state for four years. He made a prolonged but fruitless effort
to enter the Army at the outbreak of the present war, then,
as now, holding a commission as Lieutenant-Colonel of In-
fantry in the Reserve Corps of the Army.

Kennon C. Whittle is a member of the law firm of Whittle.
Whittle, Joyce and Stone, Martinsville, Virginia. His son,
Stafford G. Whittle, III, is in the Anti-Aircraft Branch of the
military service, and hopes to come to Washington and Lee
after the war.

Ki Williams, recently plant manager of the Waynesboro,
Virginia, works of the DuPont Company, has been trans-
ferred to Wilmington, Delaware, as Assistant Production
Manager of the Acetate Division of the DuPont Company.
Ki is the retiring president of the Washington and Lee Alum-
ni Association.

1915

George Robert (Bob) Shaw is still Chief Engineer for the
Tube Equipment Division, R.C.O. Corporation, Harrison,
New Jersey. He has two daughters and a son who is now an
Ensign in the Navy.

[ 14 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1916

Clarence J. Brown is a member of Congress from the
Seventh Ohio District. He taunts his Class Agent, J. E. Buck-
ley, who has two grandsons, because his daughter Dorothy,
wife of Lieutenant Robert A. Haines of the Navy, has re-
cently presented him with twin red-headed grandsons at the
Navy Hospital in San Diego. He says: “Incidentally, we are
all Navy in our family. Our eldest daughter, Betty, is the
wife of Commander Dearing, and our only son, Clarence J.,
Jr., who joined the Navy the day after he was seventeen last
year, has recently been selected for ROTC training.”

H. J. Kiser is a member of the law firm of Kiser and Kiser,
First National Bank Building, Wise, Virginia. His family con-
sists of three boys and two girls. Two of the boys are in the
armed services, the youngest boy being stationed in India,
and the older, H. J., Jr., °41, now in Utah. His second son,
William Russell, B.A. ’42, LL.B. °43, is classed as 4F in the
draft and is practicing law with his father.

Guilford S. Watson is practicing law in Port Gibson, Miss-
issippi. He has taken up flying as a pastime and has had fif-
teen hours solo flight to his credit. He is unmarried.

Selden Spessard McNeer says he has devoted most of his
time since graduation to the practice of law, except for a little
more than a year spent in the Army in the first World War.
He is married and has a wife, two girls and two boys. His
elder son graduated at Woodberry Forest School in 1942 and
is now a Second Lieutenant in the Infantry. He is registered
at Washington and Lee and expects to enter here immediately
upon his release from the armed forces. His home is in
Huntington, West Virginia.

E. S. Marshall is with the Roanoke branch of the Conti-
nental Can Company, Inc., Roanoke 8, Virginia.

Captain Charles J. Devine, (MC), USNR, is Chief of Uro-
logical Service, U.S. Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Virginia.
He has been on active duty with the Navy since 1941. His
sons, both of whom were students at Washington and Lee,
are now in the service, Charles, A.B. ’43, now a Navy medical
student at George Washington University in Washington,
D. C., and Patrick, ’46, is a paratrooper in the Army.

Earl B. Rose, Attorney-at-Law, Beattyville, Kentucky,
writes: “I follow the usual path of a country lawyer, some-
times winning a case and feeling like I am quite a lawyer
and equally as often losing one and wondering if I really
ought not to be looking at the south end of a mule headed
north from between plow handles. So far, I have managed to
conceal these questioning thoughts from the public and eke
out sufficient for my modest needs, so I am very well satis-
fied to conserve the excess perspiration I would necessarily
expend in the other vocation.” His son, Earl B., Jr., was killed
in action in Italy on September 30, while leading his platoon
in an assault on a high point somewhere along the Gothic
line. He had planned to study law at Washington and Lee.

Charles T. Herndon, Jr., practices law in Kingsport, Tenn-
essee, where he has been ever since 1916, except for service
in the U.S. Army in the first World War, and the F.B.I. He
married a Canadian and they have two children, a son, Charles
T., Jr., now a First Lieutenant, Chief Disbursing Officer, sta-
tioned at Camp Claiborne, Louisiana, and a daughter, Jean,
education completed, unmarried. Last year he was President
of the Appalachian League of Professional Baseball. He is
fond of fishing and has a fine garden which he works himself.

Albert L. Bennett
is Associate Superin-
tendent of the Virginia
Conference Orphan-
age, 3900 West Broad
Street, Richmond 21,
Virginia.

1917

Henry J. Blackford,
Class Agent for 1917
Academic Class, is a
member of the firm of
A. M. Law and Com-
pany, Stocks, Bonds,
and Insurance, Spar-
tanburg, South Caro-
lina. His son, Henry
J., Jr., °45, is with the
Army Air Force.

Homer A. Jones is
Vice-President of the
Washington Trust and
Savings Bank, Bristol,
Virginia - Tennessee. a in Ela
He says his bank has Lt. Bolling Lambeth, ’36, and Dun-
been carrying on with can Burn, ’34. (See Class Note on
a skeleton force, all page 21)
women, except one
other man, besides himself, still remaining in the bank.

 

   

Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students at Washington and Lee,
writes: “I’m still in the same spot, still looking forward to
the day when we shall have the boys back. The little crowd
that we have here now is doing a fine job in trying to hold
things together until the Old Guard returns. The Army helps
out a lot—in a financial way—but 1400 soldiers don’t take
the place of 900 boys by a long shot. I’m spending a good
deal of time working on postwar plans, for a Washington and
Lee that we hope will be better even than the one we knew
before the war. I think we might consider whether we don’t
want to set 1947 as the year for our postponed 25th reunion,
and our 30th at the same time, and make it the biggest re-
union Washington and Lee has ever seen.”

Col. Charles R. Stribling, Superintendent of Missouri Mil-
itary Academy, Mexico, Missouri, writes that he just resumed
his civilian status after three years with the Armed forces so
he can understand some of the problems which will confront
educational institutions, especially at the college level.

1918

Adolph S. Marx is in the department store business in Lake
Charles, Louisiana, his firm being The Mueller Company,
Ltd. He has two daughters, one fifteen and the other ten,
and is sorry they will not be able to enjoy the benefits of
Washington and Lee.

1919

James R. Fain has been President and Manager of the City
National Bank of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, since 1928.

Lt. Comdr. G. S. Terry is Senior Medical Officer for a
group of Naval personnel of about 1200 men on a small Pa-
cific island. He asks to be remembered to all the Washington

[15 ]

  

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and Lee “gang.” Home address: 26 Taunton Road, Scarsdale,
New York.
1920

William F. Parker is a member of the law firm of Milledge
and Parker, Ingraham Building, Miami 32, Florida. He has a
son almost old enough to join the armed forces. He sends
kind regards to all the other members of that notable aggre-
gation of philosophers and philanthropists constituting the
Class of 1920.

James B. Waters is Vice-President of McCrory, Armstrong
& Waters, Insurance, Barnett National Bank Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida. He is married and has a daughter, age six-
teen, and a Luke, Jr., age ten.

Richard Leon Lile and his wife returned to this country re-
cently after three years and two months in the Japanese in-
ternment camp at Santa Tomas in Manila. This information
was received from his brother, Charles T. Lile, ’15, who says:
“Like most of those who were there for that length of time,
they suffered considerably from lack of food. However, they
have made a remarkable comeback, and physical examinations
have not revealed any permanent injury to their health.”

Thomas McA. (“Mac”) Stubbs, Class Agent for 1920-A, is
a member of the law firm of Dorsey, Stubbs & Dorsey,
Rhodes-Haverty Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He has three
sons, the eldest is in Primary Flight Training (Navy), the
second, Bill, completes his sophomore year at Chapel Hill in
june and will then go into the Merchant Marine Academy.
Campbell, the youngest, will soon be thirteen.

Joe Glickstein reports that things are about as usual with
him except that his oldest boy, Joe, Jr., enlisted in the Navy
in January and is now at boot camp.

Eldon King is a Special Commissioner, Bureau of Internal
Revenue. Last year he made a trip to London which he
thought would take about a month. The trip extended, how-
ever, after about seven weeks in London, to a month in South
Africa, another month in London; from London to Pretoria
by air via Casablanca, Algiers, Tunis, Tripoli, Cairo, Khar-
toum, Lake Victoria, Mombasa, Mozambique, Lourence Mar-
ques. He lives at 3821 Fulton Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

1921

Robert G. Kelly, immediately after leaving school in 1918,
entered the Army and served a year in France. On his return
he worked for the FBI, and then entered the University of
West Virginia Law School, graduating in 1923. He became a
member of the law firm of Brown, Jackson and Knight in
Charleston, West Virginia. In 1942 he entered the Army
and “after a few months trying to play the young man’s
game,’ had a heart attack and returned to civil pursuits. Ad-
dress: Brown, Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

Morton Felsenthal has been with Beau Brummel Ties, Inc.,
Cincinnati, Ohio, for eighteen years, and is now in charge
of the Southern sales department. He has been married for
twenty years and has a daughter sixteen who is entering
Ward Belmont in September and will go on to Vassar.

William J. Guenther spent twelve years on the road with a
territory covering Southern Michigan, Northern Indiana, Ohio
and Western Kentucky. He then went back into the hard-

ware business at Owensboro, Kentucky. He is married and
has three daughters 10, 12 and 14 years old, respectively.
Home: 1224 Parrish Avenue, Owensboro, Kentucky.

Raymond D. Garcin, Jr., is now back in private practice
after serving as a Lieutenant Commander in the Pacific. He
received a medical discharge after having sustained a back
injury. His wife, who was a nurse, joined her hospital unit
when he went overseas, and is still stationed somewhere in
Italy. He has not seen her for three years.’ His daughter,
Muriel, is now a freshman at William and Mary College. His
address is: 3216 East Broad Street, Richmond 23, Virginia.

John Bell is a member of the firm of Knight and Thompson,
Attorneys-at-Law, Tampa, Florida. He says he was “skinny”
when he was in school, but now weighs 170 pounds.

Major Samuel F. Raines is Chief of Genito-Urinary Sur-
gery, England General Hospital, Atlantic City, New Jersey.
His oldest son is 18 and will go into the service this summer
but he has already sent in his application to go to Washing-
ton and Lee, if, as and when.

William A. Gibbons, Jr., received his discharge from the
Enlisted Reserve Corps in December, 1944, and is now back
with the Liberty Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia.

1922

William Francis McCann is still on his old job of rail-
roading, as he has been since 1921, and reports busy days,
but says he can spare time to recall the happy days at Wash-
ington and Lee. He says: “This is a critical period for the
school—may it serve this period as it has every one in the
past.” He is with the New York Central System, Pittsburgh
and Lake Erie R.R. Co. Address: 413 Northview Avenue,
New Castle, Pennsylvania.

Lewis Joel is practicing law in the Graham Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida. He says despite the leniency of the Florida
divorce law, he is still married to wife No. 1, and is getting
much pleasure out of the development and progress of his
fifteen-year old son. “He shows signs of real intelligence by
determining that he will not practice law.”

Henry Trotter, Provident Building, Chattanooga, Tennes-
see, says that life seems to change very little for him—his
kids are growing up, his hair is getting gray, and the scales
squeak a little louder when he gets on them. His civic activities
are numerous. He is holding down a ration board and price
level job; secretary of the Rotary Club: treasurer of the
Council of Community Forces; and a few other odds and ends,

Verbon E. Kemp is still Secretary of the Virginia State
Chamber of Comerce. He and his family, consisting of a
wife and three children, live in the country near Richmond
on the banks of “the historic Jeems.” Children: V. Eric, Jr.,
16; Anne, 14; and Wilson, 11. He was elected to honorary
membership in ODK last year.

1923

Tom Wade had been employed with the Brown-William-
son Tobacco Company since 1927 in their various factories
as chemist, finally ending up in Louisville, Kentucky, in 1930,
where he is now Branch Manager of the local factories. He
has accumulated a wife, son and two daughters.

Vaughn Penn lives in Larchmont, New York, and has two

[ 16 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

daughters aged 12 and 9. He is Vice-President of Gem Dandy,
Inc., of Madison, North Carolina, of which George Mason,
‘23, is President. They manufacture men’s suspenders, belts,

garters, etc.

Student Frew is still with the United States Rubber Com-
pany in Charlotte, North Carolina. He has been in personnel
work with this company for several years in a plant employ-
ing ten thousand people. Over seven thousand women, but
that is easy for Gus since both his children are girls.

Rev. Bernie H. Hampton is pastor of the Keith Memorial
Methodist Church in Athens, Tennessee. He had just returned
from France when he entered Washington and Lee in 1919,
and says “Now we are at it again.”” He has three girls aged 8,
10 and 15.

George Holbrook is still with the Bond Department of the
Century Indemnity Company, Aetna Fire Group, Hartford,
Connecticut. He is married and has two girls and a boy.

1924

P. Whitney Peden is with Anderson, Clayton and Company,
Inc., 810 West Sixth Street, Los Angeles 14, California. He
has three children, two girls, 14 and 12, and a boy, 10.

Dr. John Townsend Collins has recently moved from Char-
leston, West Virginia, to Lewisburg, West Virginia, where
he and his family are making their home.

E. Elmer (Shorty) Ames, Jr., lives the life of Riley on the
Kastern shore of Virginia at Onancock. He is Prosecuting
Attorney of Accomac County, and usually finds time for the
fishing, hunting and duck shooting for which his part of the
world is famous. He practiced as associate and partner of
the late Senator Warner Ames until 1938, and now practices
alone. He married Elizabeth Johnson Nelson in 1936, has a
five-year old son, the III, and insists W. and L,. friends
should not fail to look him up when in his section.

John W. Greene is practicing law with offices in the Park
National Bank Building, Knoxville, Tennessee.

W. Clyde Dennis is practicing law in Grundy, Virginia.

1925

Commander Lindsay R. Henry, writing on March 30, 1945,
encloses a snap shot of himself and Lt. (j.g.) Calvin East, 43,
taken on a trip to Exeter, Devon. In the background of the
picture is a mountain which they thought resembled House
Mountain. He says: “ We thought you would be glad to know
that we often think of the University and our happy days
there.” Commander Henry commanded the assault wave of
twelve ships landing the 115th Infantry on the Normandy

coast.

Lt. George Clark is still assistant yard officer at the Naval
Air Station, Miami, Florida. However, he expects a change
of station in the near future, and possibly at an advanced base.

John C. Morrison is still engaged in the practice of law
with the firm of Brown, Jackson and Knight, with which he
started in 1925. His son, John C. Morrison, III, is now seven
years old. His father expects to enter him as a member of the
Class of 1960, which, incidentally, will be the thirty-fifth an-
niversary of the Class of 1925.

Morris Abernathy is no longer with the American Red

 

Vincent David Martire, ’36
(See Class Note)

 

Cross and is now Special Agent for the Nortwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Company, Norfolk, Virginia. He is the proud
father of a three-months old son. His other children are girls,
aged ten and seven.

(Notes by Class Agent, Bruce F. Gannaway)

Bob Stuckenrath, Lewiston, Pennsylvania, writes of his
activities, “There’s not a darned thing to brag about. I’ve
practiced a lot of law, caught some trout, hunted some squir-
rel, and missed a buck. My son would be already registered for
the Class of 1949, only there’s a war on, and he'll become
1-A about the time he should enter.”’ Bob is county solicitor,
and has done a real job in setting up a new scheme of real
estate assessments for tax purposes.

Murrel D. Klein is still in the insurance business in Louis-
ville. Since his partner is in the Army, “Lefty” is handling the
business himself.

Tom Lyle is still in Gary, Indiana, with Factory Stores.
Tom writes, “We are doing a terrific business with little and
poor help. Have finally reached the point where I’d be hap-
pier with less.” I know a lot of people are saying the same
thing, but we realize as never before that a war isn’t con-
fined to the place where the fighting is. For my part, I could
certainly use a Church Secretary, but keeping one is another
problem.

Bo McMillan, as County Chairman for the 5th War Bond
Drive, led his people to exceed their quota by June 30. Bo

[17]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

is still at Athens, Tennessee. His son has completed a year
at T.M.I. Bo says, “We both play on the same team in a
Sunday School soft ball league. The old man is slowing down
but won’t admit it.”” Aren’t we all!

Elmore G. Dufour now resides at 206% Crescent Avenue,
San Antonio, Texas. He has been there a little over a year,
and is in the Real Estate and Insurance Business, and likes
everything about it. His son, 14, has just completed his first
year at Porter Military Academy in Charleston, South Caro-
lin.a

Charles Heilig is still with the Taylor Mattress Company.
It seems that last year in the “Digest” I accused him of get-
ting rich, when he was only “very busy.” My apologies,
Charlie; I know what it is to be busy without getting rich.

Bob Goodrich is back with the Franklin Limestone Com-
pany, after serving for a year or so in the Army. Bob doesn’t
have much news, but I take it that he is still cheating some
yong lady of the finest husband a girl could have.

Calvin Burton is one of these busy doctors who is so used
to writing prescriptions that he wrote to me on one. That’s
all right, Calvin, I have two doctors in my Church, and I
know something of what they are having to go through with.
But that’s good news to hear of Calvin Thomas, Jr., born
May 16, 1944. By the way, I met some good friends of yours
here, but I can’t remember their names. I met them at an
A.A. meeting.

Vernon Kreienbaum continues in his war work in Emporia,
where he says “it seems as if one does more work and can
see_less results.” Well, Vernon, it can’t last much longer,
surely, and what a great day that will be. I just hope we'll
be prepared for peace when it comes, for I look for it to come
suddenly. Vernon, Jr., will be 14 on November 2, and Claire
was 11 on May 5.

Joe Bruin has had a varied experience. For 8 years (1934-
42) he was “Y” Secretary and assistant headmaster of the
Franklin Day School. The school closed because of the war,
so Joe became an instructor of hydraulics on the B-26,
teaching Army men. Returning to Public School work in
1943, he became principal of the high school at Falls Church,
Virginia. Joe is the first of our bunch that I know of who
has a son in the Service. Mackall R. Bruin, III, who has
been in the Coast Guard for over a year, recently returned
home from overseas. He is a gunner, radar man, etc., on a
destroyer, and is out of the country on convoy duty most of
the time.

1926

W. F. Glenn, Jr., is still hard at it in engineering, selling
and designing Automatic Coal Stokers for Illinois Iron and
Bolt Company. He makes his headquarters in Louisville,
Kentucky, at 2535 Wood Creek Road. Frank’s work calls
for a lot of travel, and he says traveling is no fun these days.

Lt. Col. James Kay Thomas is now somewhere in Germany
with the Air Corps. He has had eighteen months service in
North Africa, Sicily and Italian theatre of operations.

Lt. T. T. Dickerson has been in the Army for over two
years, serving from Michigan to Texas and back to Louisiana.
In March, when his letter was written, he was stationed in
Gueyden, Louisiana, where the population is 90 per cent
French. His home is in Ronceverte, West Virginia.

1927

Walker N. Jolliffe, Marine Warrant Officer, has returned to
Marine Corps Air Depot, Marimar, California, from the Cen-
tral Pacific where he was a quartermaster officer with an air
warning squadron of a Fourth Marine Air Wing Group.
Based in the Marshall Islands, Jolliffe’s duties consisted of
keeping his squadron supplied with aviation material. He said
that although he was subject to bombing and strafing raids
during which he “dug foxholes just short of desertion,” he
escaped injury. Home: 307 Rockwell Terrace, Frederick,
Maryland.

George N. Burks was elected President of the Louisville,
Kentucky, Board of Fire Underwriters. He has served as
Vice-President of the Underwriters and was formerly Presi-
dent of the Junior Board of Trade, and has been a leader in
many civic movements. He now heads the Washington and
Lee Alumni group in Louisville.

S. Talmage Magann is pastor of the First Baptist Church,
169 North Union Avenue, Salem, Ohio, which position he has
held since October 1, 1937.

1928

Irvin W. Cubine is a candidate for Director of Rotary In-
ternational. He is Commonwealth’s Attorney for the City of
Martinsville, Virginia, where he has practiced law since 1929.
He has been active in many civic organizations, with special
emphasis on Rotary, in which he has had a perfect attendance
record since he became a member in 1930.

1929

Walter H. Wilcox has changed his address to Old Con-
necticut Path, Wayland, Massachusetts. He says he has
bought a small place in the country—not having enough to do!

M. M. Heuser is practicing law in Norton, Virginia. He has
been married between eight and nine years and has two
children, a boy and a girl. He says Carl Hamilton is the only
member of his class he has run across in the almost sixteen
years since graduation.

Capt. Walter N. Pharr, Jr., writes: “During the past three
years I have been flying our government’s largest passenger
and cargo planes over much of this world under American
Airline’s government contract, part of the Air Transport
Command—often above the Arctic Circle, then as far East as
China and at present mainly helping bring the wounded back
from France.” He was married two years ago and now has a
young son.

Lieutenant Colonel Robert W. Pharr is with our forces in
Germany. Home: 3531 Park Place, Memphis, Tennessee.

Captain Charles V. Amole, surgeon and gynecologist, is
now serving with a Y-Force Portable Surgical Hospital in
Western Yunnan, attached to a Chinese army in the Salween
River combat sector. He entered the Army in October, 1942,
and after serving at Lawson General Hospital in Atlanta,
Georgia, and Halloran General Hospital in Long Island, New
York, was ordered overseas, arriving in India in 1943. Sent
across the Himalayan “Hump” to China and assigned to the
Y-Force, the American military mission which trained, equip-
ped and supplied the Chinese Expeditionary Force for the
Salween campaign, first sustained Chinese offensive in seven
years, aimed at reopening the Burma Road supply route. When

[18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the offensive was launched across the Salween in early May,
Y-Force specialists, advisers and technicians accompanied
each attacking unit into the combat zone. Portable hospitals
were sent with each major unit and field hospitals were es-
tablished in the rear areas. Amole crossed the Salween with a
unit which performed major surgery on the most badly
wounded Chinese soldiers. These American Y-Force hospital
units are credited with saving more Chinese lives than have
been saved in any other campaign in China’s. long history.
For his service in the Field with Y-Force, Captain Amole is
entitled to wear a bronze star on his Asiatic Campaign ribbon.
Captain Amole’s wife lives at McKim Hall, University Sta-
tion, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Ralph M. McLane has been in the Navy thirty-
five months as of March 30, 1945. He is now stationed in
New Orleans.

Major Robert B. Lee is on leave of absence from the Bank-
ers Trust Company of New York, where he is Assistant
Comptroller, and is stationed in Greenville, South Carolina.
He is a member of the Quartermaster Price Adjustment
Section.

Arnold Schlossberg is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia,
with offices in the Boxley Building. He says he is sharing
offices with Ran G. Whittle, '24, which puts him in a real
Washington and Lee atmosphere.

Cpl. Jack W. Kenny was paid twice this month. Once on
the regular payday and again when his poster won a $25
War Bond in a recent safety campaign. The award was made
by the Ground Safety Office of his Air Service Command
Base. Cpl. Kenny’s prize winner shows a row of horses and
men looking at an injured soldier. The accompanying caption
reads, “All Uncle Sam’s horses and Uncle Sam’s men can't
put a Sad Sack together again.”” Home: 2600 Goodman Street,
Muncie, Indiana.

1930

Morton E. Padgett, Class Agent for 1930-Law, is a member
of the firm of Oliver and Padgett, Bedford, Virginia, with
offices in the Peoples National Bank Building.

Lt. Col. Robert E. MacDonald has recently been promoted
to that rank from Major. He is the Procurement Officer for
the Engineer Service, Headquarters Peninsular Base Section,
important service and supply organization for the Fifth Army
and for the ground forces of the Air Corps and Navy in the
Mediterranean theatre of operations. Home: 7620 Augusta
Avenue, Normandy, Missouri.

Lt. (j.g.) Herbert Jahncke has been in the Navy about a
year and, after several assignments, is now in Newburgh,
New York, handling storage and redistribution of surplus
Navy material. He has moved his family to Newburgh and
cannot complain too much about Navy life. He has three
boys, aged three, six and nine, all prospects for Washington
and Lee.

1931

Lieutenant Colonel Reno R. Porter is Chief of Medical
Service, LaGrande General Hospital, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Fred Collette has been associated with the Continental
Supply Company in Oklahoma City since his graduation from
college. His two sons, six and four, are named George and
Robert,

 

Capt. Robert M. Peek, Jr., °37
(See Class Note)

 

Don S. MacGlashan is married and has a son, Peter, four
years old. Don enlisted as a private in the Army shortly after
Pearl Harbor, worked his way up to be a commissioned
officer, and was recently put on the “inactive” list. Inactive
to Don meant joining the Military Welfare Service of the
American Red Cross, in which endeavor he is at present
busily occupied. Home: 31 Brookside Avenue, Darien, Con-
necticut.

Jack Hardwick is Vice-President and Treasurer of the
Louisville Trust Company, Louisville, Kentucky. He is mar-
ried and has two sons.

Cpl. Richard Harrison Huff is now with the 118lst Engi-
neering Construction Group in the South Pacific. Home:
Elkhorn, West Virginia.

John C. Smith is second vice-president of the Northern
Trust Company, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois.
John is married and has two children, a boy and a girl.

Eugene Johnson of the DuPont Company is stationed back
in Waynesboro, Virginia, after a two-year stint in Birming-
ham, Alabama. Johnson visited Lexington recently and re-
ports the campus looks “better than ever,” and he enjoyed
talks with Dr. Tucker and Dr. Desha.

[19 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1932

Lt. Henry W. MacKenzie, Jr., after various East Coast
sases, finally wound up on a destroyer in European waters
and the Mediterranean. Back in this country in November,
1944, he was married; was transferred to the amphibious
force and has had several months near home. He is now
Staff Commander, LST Flotilla 37, FPO, New York.

Major Ran T. Shields, Jr.. who was with the Medical
Corps in China for two years, is now back in this country.
Home address: care of Dr. R. T. Shields, 1745 Linden Ave-
nue, Memphis 4, Tennessee.

Lt. James D. Sparks, USNR, is at 534 Anastasia, Coral
Gables, Florida.

Major Charles A. Wood, Jr., QMC, State Procurement
Officer, Selective Service, West Virginia, since September,
1940. He says his family consists of one wife, two daughters,
one collie, eleven hens and thirty-seven rabbits. The practice
of law seems quite remote and a thing entirely of the past.

1933

Ed Chittum, last July, accepted the position of High School
Supervisor in the Norfolk County Schools. The Norfolk sec-
tion is bustling with activity and bulging with people from
practically every state in the Union. This has resulted in the
schools overflowing and some even going to school in shifts.
Address: 51-57 Nusbaum Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia.

Paul E. Holbrook, Captain in the U.S. Medical Corps, re-
ceived a medical discharge in August, 1944, and is now prac-
ticing medicine in Ashland, Kentucky.

Lt. (j.g.) Simon M. “Cy” Painter was changed from Armed
Guard duty to Amphibious Duty in July, 1944, moved from
Brooklyn to Solomons, Maryland, where he became head
of the Synthetic Gunnery Department for eight months.
When that base was closed he was transferred to Little
Creek, Virginia, and was teaching gunnery there for two
months. He is now preparing for a trip overseas. Home ad-
dress: Bedford, Virginia.

Lt. Robert Glenn Livengood has been transferred from the
Coast Artillery Anti-Aircraft Division to the Infantry Di-
vision of the United States Army, and has for some time
been located in Italy. Home address: 4397 McPherson Ave-
nue, St. Louis, Missouri.

Lt. William W. Hawkins had a two-year stretch as U.S.
Naval Liaison Officer in Kingston, Jamaica, and in April,
1945, was nearing the completion of another year in Basra,
Iraq, as a member of the staff of the Naval Observer. He
says he never gets over being amazed at wearing a Naval
uniform in the middle of the desert. Home address: 300 Park
Avenue, New York City.

Lt. J. B. Wharton, Jr., is now chief of staff in orthopedics
at the Navy Hospital in San Diego, California. Immediately
after his appointment in the Navy in August, 1942, he was
sent to a mobile hospital in New Zealand. Assigned to no
special squadron, but working with a different one each trip,
Dr. Wharton saw action at Tulagi, Rendova, New Guinea and
Bougainville. His home is in El] Dorado, Arkansas.

Peel Rivers, U.S. Marine Corps, was in the first Marine
offensive of the South Pacific, landing in Tulagi on August 7,
1942. He was there two months and then moved to Guadal-

canal for four months combat duty; nine months in Welling-
ton, New Jersey, resting up and training replacements. Next,
combat duty at Tarawa where he was wounded in the mouth
on the second day; evacuated to Pearl Harbor Hospital, la-
ter to Oakland, California, and is at present doing duty at
the Marine Corps Base in San Diego. Home: 1508 Morton,
Louisville 4, Kentucky.

T/Sgt. C. R. Kaplan is now with the 195th General Hos-
pital, APO 513, New York, New York.

Lt. M. H. (Mo) Crighton, Jr., has been in the service for
two years and says he feels at times as if he was born in the
Navy blue. He has fifteen months of sea duty behind him
and at present is on a Tanker as gunnery and communica-
tions officer. His crew is good, the chow is excellent, and they
hit the States fairly frequently, so he has nothing to com-
plain about. He has been in practically every theatre of op-
erations and expects to see the Pacific before long. Home:
20 South Boulevard, Richmond, Virginia.

Shelby W. Blatterman is farming at R.F.D., May’s Lick,
Kentucky. He specializes in livestock, tobacco and grains.

Jim Lord is in his fourth year in the service and has re-
cently returned to the States after duty in the Tropics. At
present he is in Portland, Maine, doing photographic work.
Home: 209 West Main Street, Riverhead, Long Island, New
Y ork.

Richard K. Eddy is back in the States after twenty months
of foreign duty with the U.S. Coast Guard. Home: 430 Fair-
mont Avenue, Winchester, Virginia.

Charles Kaufman is still working for General Foods Cor-
poration in the research division, having moved recently from
the laboratories at Hoboken to the main office in New York
City as Assistant Manager of Research and Development De-
partment. He has a new daughter, now seven months old,
but between commuting to the office and to Chicago several
times a month as consultant to the Quartermaster General
Office and Subsistence Laboratories, he has seen very little
of her so far.

Lt. (j.g.) Joe F. Bear has been in the South Pacific “jump-
ing from one island to another.” He is now back in the States
at the U.S. Naval Air Station, Banana River, Florida. Home:
One Rose Lane, Montgomery, Alabama.

Major Todd DeVan went to England in October, 1943,
and was with the First Army headquarters until D-Day. He
had lots of experiences on that hectic day, the most important
being that the ship on which he crossed the Channel was hit
by a mine and a British destroyer picked them up. He joined
the 42nd Field Hospital when he landed in France and was
with the First Army until around Christmas. He then joined
Patton’s Third Army, still with the 42nd Field Hospital, how-
ever. He has been in Germany for a long time.

M/Sgt. Loring M. Garrison is still in England and says he
has gained weight on powdered eggs, spam and dehydrated
potatoes, but his greatest desire is to see the Blue Ridge
Mountains.

W. J. (Bill) Brooks, Jr., is still with Fisher Memphis Air-
craft Division, General Motors Corporation, Memphis, Ten-
nessee, where he is a Supervisor in the Payroll Department.

Lt. Richard T. Edwards has had a month’s leave and is now
back on his ship the USS Saratoga. He says so far he has had

[ 20 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

it pretty easy “except for a little fun at Iwo Jima.” Bob Espy,
’°39, and Johnnie Zombro, '41, are on the same ship.

Vess E. Irvine says he is still manufacturing steel tanks.
Went fishing in Florida this winter and caught some nice
fish. Home address: 445 Wolf’s Lane, Pelham Manor, New
Y ork.

Marshall Nuckols, Jr., is still Secretary of the Campbell
Soup Company at Camden, New Jersey. His home address
is 130 Cherry Lane, Wynnewood, Pennsylvania.

1934

Lt. (j.g.) Henry Taylor Jones is now commander of a group
of Landing Craft for Infantry somewhere in the Pacific, and
has been on duty for eighteen months. Home: 2565 Post
Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

Captain E. R. Massie, Jr., is Assistant Staff Judge Advo-
cate, I.R.T.C., Camp Gordon, Georgia. Home: Clifton Forge,
Virginia.

Layne Ford has been in the Army for more than a year. He
is with the 12th Tactical Air Command, and first served on
the Italian front and later in France. Home: Box 534, Graf-
ton, West Virginia.

1935

Captain Joseph A. Clemmer has been promoted to that
rank acording to a recent announcement from his unit head-
quarters with the Fifteenth Air Force Service Command,
Italy. He has been overseas since March 4, 1943. Home: 8
Jordan Street, Lexington, Virginia.

Lt. Frederick de R. Strong spent three months at Harvard,
eighteen months as Disbursing Officer (Paymaster) at a
Naval Base in Newfoundland. In December, 1943, he was
transferred back for another school at Harvard, and for the
past eight months has been at the Navy Department Material
Redistribution and Disposal Office in Boston. He has bought
a house in Cambridge, has a wife, a three-month old son, and
two collies. Address: 59 Foster Street, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts.

1936

Lt. Bolling Lambeth, USNR, recently returned from the
Pacific, where for the past fourteen months he was on duty
with the Seventh Fleet Staff, lately in the Philippines, writes
as follows: “When I went to Manila shortly after the libera-
tion of our people at Santa Tomas, I found Duncan Burn, ’34,
whom the Japs held for three years. He had been in business
in Manila. The enclosed picture of us was taken at Santa
Tomas. I was at Washington and Lee with Duncan, and we
later lived together in Washington. He was well and had
many interesting stories to tell.”

Vincent David Martire has arrived in Hawaii for further
assignment in the Pacific area as an American Red Cross
assistant field director. Until his Red Cross appointment he
was employed by the Columbia Broadcasting Company, and
previously was a correspondent for Variety Magazine. Home:
205 Pelhamdale Avenue, Pelham, New York.

Lt. W. Magruder Drake was in on the invasion of Luzon
at Lingayen Gulf and later was in the invasion of Okinawa.
He is now having a 30-day leave of absence and spent several
days in Lexington, after visiting his home in Port Gibson,

 

Gladwyn K. Noble, *45
(See Class Note)

 

Mississippi. He wears six battle stars and expects to return
to the Pacific this summer.

1937

Captain Robert M. Peek, Jr., was among the first officers
to be released from the service under the Army’s new Rede-
ployment and Readjustment Plan, better known as the “point
system.” Capt. Peek entered the service in March, 1941; spent
over two years in the Asiatic theatre of operations. He re-
ceived the coveted Air Medal with five oak leaf clusters, the
American Defense Ribbon for duty before Pearl Harbor, and
the Pacific-Asiatic Ribbon for duty in that theatre. He will
live at 4223 South Lookout Avenue, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Ensign Lewis D. Williams, USNR, member of the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty before entering the Navy last spring,
now on the USS Burleigh, was in the invasion of Okinawa.
He has seen many Washington and Lee men. Home: 700
Cleveland Avenue, Elizabeth, New Jersey.

M. Sgt. James A. Blalock has returned from service out-
side the continental United States and is now being processed
through the Army Ground and Service Forces Redistribution
Station in Miami Beach, where his next assignment will be
determined. He served twenty-four months as a legal exami-
ner in the American theatre of operations. While there he

[21]

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

was awarded the American Theatre campaign ribbon and the
Asiatic-Pacific campaign ribbon. Home: care of Dr. H. F.
Magee, 1520 North State Street, Jackson, Mississippi.

Lt. C. Arnold Matthews, after being hospitalized for several
months with a broken hip, is now on duty with the Supply
Department, Navy Yard, Brooklyn, New York. He has been
in service for three years in Murmansk, Scotland, England,
Newfoundland, Africa, Australia, and the Southwest Pacific
Islands, but says never has the going been harder or one’s
life more in danger than in the subway crush in New York.
Home: Brodnax, Virginia.

First Lt. Thomas B. Tolley has recently been promoted to
that rank in the Philippines, where he is serving in the Postal
Division at Eighth Army Headquarters. He went overseas
in August, 1944, and has seen service both in New Guinea
and the Philippines. Home: care of George P. Tolley, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Colonel George C. Crowell, AAF, home on leave after nine-
teen months in England, is the holder of the Distinguished
Flying Cross and the Air Medal with six oak leaf clusters.
His wife, Yvonne, and his eleven months old son, George,
Jr., live with Col. Crowell’s mother and father, the Rev.
George C. Crowell, 4201 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago,
Illinois.

Ernest C. Barrett is with the Advertising Department of
the Richmond Times Dispatch. He and his wife have a baby
son born May 17, 1944. Home: 609 Somerset, Richmond,
Virginia.

William A. Clary resigned his position with the Office of
War Information in November and is now Assistant Office
Manager of Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Leopoldville,
Africa.

1938

Major William H. Hillier, regimental executive officer with
General Patch’s Seventh Army in France, was seriously
wounded in combat, January 8, 1945. He is now in a hospital
in Southern France and says the care is excellent. Home:
331 South Lawn Avenue, East Lansing, Michigan.

Second Lt. Frederick E. Waters is a navigator in Italy
with a Fifteenth Air Force Liberator Group which has been
awarded the Distinguished Unit Citation, a combat honor
which permits Lt. Waters to wear the distinctive blue and
gold Citation Badge. Home: 429 Rugby Avenue, College
Park, Georgia.

Staff Sgt. Charles O. Wills was one of more than two hun-
dred Eighth Air Force soldiers studying in their spare time
at the 78th Fighter Group’s “University” in preparation for
their return to civilian life. He is an aircraft inspector, check-
ing equipment for repair and modification in a P-51 Mustang
Group command. The school, one of a number to be set up
under the Army Education Program, offers twelve subjects,
and students have signed up for fifteen weeks study. Their
instructors are fellow soldiers doubling as teachers in sub-
jects which were their professions before joining the Army.
After Germany’s defeat the school planned to expand into a
full-time educational system for soldiers waiting for transfer
back home or to other theatres. Home: Lynchburg, Virginia.

Lt. William B. Bagbey has been awarded the Bronze Star
with the following citation: “For distinguishing himself by
heroic and meritorious conduct in action when his ship .....

was under heavy air attack....and was hit..... causing dan-
gerous fire and flooding.... He donned a rescue breathing
apparatus and with utter disregard of his own life led a fire
hose to the scene of the fire to bring it under control. He
further entered compartments flooded to a six foot level and
supervised patching of hole and shoring operations in a suc-
cessful attempt to save his ship. He remained in those com-
partments during subsequent air attacks and until all but
overcome by heavy oil fumes. His conduct throughout dis-
tinguished him among those performing duties of the same
character.”” Home: 324 Washington Avenue, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

T/5 John G. Ostertag writes that he has been in the United
States Navy for sixteen months and located near Ulm, Ger-
many, for the past seven months. Home: Glen Riddle, Penn-
sylvania.

Lt. William H. Byrn is on the USS “Cowie,” where he has
been an Anti-Submarine Officer on the staff of a Destroyer
Squadron Commander for the past year. He is married and has
a little Bill Byrn, Jr., who is now a few months old. Home:
315 Oakley Street, Cambridge, Maryland.

Lt. Floyd R. May, Jr., was one of two Navy surgeons who
won a race against a rising tide when they used a tiny dark
seaside cave on Okinawa to operate on 12 wounded Marines.
A dispatch from the island described the “hospital” in which
combat stretchers were operating tables. The cave had been
chosen by the surgeons because of its relative safety, but ar-
tillery raked the area outside during the operations. Their
only light was a flashlight, which had to be snapped off fre-
quently to avoid detection by pilots of Jap planes circling
overhead and the sea threatened to engulf surgeons and pa-
tients. Home: 704 Sixth Street, Cleveland, Mississippi.

William Henry Daniel is working at the Civilian Training
Air School in Lakeland, Florida. He is a technical order
clerk. Home address: 309 East Maxwell Street, Lakeland,
Florida.

Rev. Arthur L. Bice, rector of Trinity Episcopal Church at
Lincoln, Illinois, for nearly four years, is now rector of the
Church of the Ascension, Troy, New York. His address is
36 Pinewoods Avenue, Troy, New York.

1939

Captain Tom N. Tennant is stationed with the Air Trans-
port Command, Cincinnati, Ohio. He has had a year in India.
Home: 309 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Frank B. O’Connor is in the production department, Elec-
tric Boat Company, Groton, Connecticut. Home: 36 Park-
way, New London, Connecticut.

Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr., is with the Standard Oil Com-
pany of New Jersey. He is married and has one son. His
home address is 1510 Pentridge Road, Baltimore 12, Mary-
land.

1940

Gilbert Gardner, Class Agent for 1940-A, has accepted a
position as director of publicity and public relations for the
Illinois State Chamber of Comerce, 20 North Wacker Drive,
Chicago 6, Illinois. Since November, 1943, he has been with
the Office of Foreign Economic Administration—successor to
Lend-Lease—in Washington, D. C., where he was secretary
of the Washington and Lee Alumni Chapter.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lt. (j.g.) Louis M. Walker finished his medical training
December 31, 1943. He is now in the Pacific on an LST.
and took part in the invasion of Iwo Jima. Home: 1477 West
Macon Street, Decatur, Illinois.

Paul F. Wile enlisted in the Navy on November 7, 1940,
as an apprenticed seaman and was sent out to sea immediately.
After serving in various capacities he was sent to Midship-
man’s School at Notre Dame, where he received his commis-
sion on May 31, 1944, and went to Miami for training in ad-
vanced gunnery. He is ncw attached to the USS Reno, which
is somewhere in the Pacific. Home: 30 West 54th Street, New

York City.

Captain John C. Hopkins, after thirty-four months in the
Southwest Pacific area, received orders returning him to the
States for a tour of duty. Home: Mt. Sterling, Kentucky.

Harry Benner, Army communications officer for the
Chinese over in Burma, wrote that he was recovering from
malaria. Harry is still single and looking forward to a return
te the States. His letter was heavily censored. Home: Car-
roll Parkway and Gordon Road, Flossmoor, Illinois.

Capt. Jack Dangler, Army Air Corps, entered the service in
February, 1941. He trained at Tyndall Field, Florida, where
he received his commission as second lieutenant in December,
1942. He is now in Italy. Jack is married to the former
Carolyn Eason of Baxley, Georgia. Home: 654 East 19th
Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Major Robert H. Gaddy is a member of one of the oldest
squadrons in the Eighth Air Force which recently celebrated
two years of operations in England by completing its 275th
mission over continental Europe. Major Gaddy is a veteran
of combat, having completed 42 over Holland,
Belgium, France and Germany. For his meritorious achieve-
ments in combat as a Pilot he has been awarded the Air
Medal and Five Oak Leaf Clusters. On D-Day Gaddy’s was
the first B-17 Fortress squadron to fly over the invasion
beachheads and Normandy, dropping leaflets warning the
French people that the blow was about to be struck to lib-
erate their homeland, and to do everything possible to keep
away from bombing zones. Home: Latta, South Carolina.

missions

Fred Shellabarger, now a Navy Lieutenant, writes from
his destroyer that his home is Springfield, Missouri, when
he’s ashore. Fred married the former Catherine E. Mack
and they are the parents of a son, David C. For a short time
after graduation, Fred worked for Shellabarger Mill & Ele-
vator Company, Salina, Kansas. Home: 590 East Walnut
Street, Springfield, Missouri.

Lt. Hal B. Watterson has been made commanding officer
of his ship. Lt. Waterson was a member of the Pearl Harbor
Anniversary class of the Midshipman School in New York,
and received his commission as ensign in March, 1943. He
received further training at the Submarine Chaser School in
Miami, Florida, and shipped in July, 1943, as gunnery officer,
fourth in command.

1941

Lt. Julius Boyd (Gus) Stombock is executive officer of the
35th Division Reconnaisance Troop since the St. Lo break-
through. Home. 421 Walnut Street, Waynesboro, Virginia.

First Lt. James D. Taylor, pilot of a B-17 Flying Fortress

of the 95th Bombardment Group, has been awarded the fourth
oak leaf cluster to the Air Medal for “Meritorious Achieve-

 

ist Lt. Paul J. Bates, °46
(See Class Note)

 

ment.” He is a member of the Fortress group which led the
first American attack on targets in Berlin, and which was
cited by the President for its outstanding bombing assault on
railroad marshalling yards at Munster, Germany, in October,
1943. As a component of the distinguished Third Air Divi-
sion, the group also shared in a Presidential citation given
the entire division for its historic England-African shuttle
bombing of an important Messerschmitt fighter plane plant at
Regensburg, Germany, in August, 1943. Home: 3814 Fort
Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

First Lt. Henry Marshall Taylor has been promoted to that
rank at Wright Field, Ohio. He is assigned at ATSC as pro}j-
ect officer, Electrical Branch, Equipment laboratory. Home:
Barclay Lane, Lexington, Virginia.

Lt. Rufus Shumate is now on the Staff and Faculty of the
Cavalry School at Fort Riley and instructing in the Depart-
ment of Communications. He has a son born on March 10,
1945, “a future Washington and Lee man.”

Lt. James W. Funk is in the States. instructing on B-25's
at Douglas, Arizona. He served in China and India for
eighteen months. While in China his plane was shot down in
the China Sea. He and four others were in their rubber raft
for 36 hours, but were picked up by Indo-Chinese and brought
back to their base safely. Home: 1403 Old Vincennes. Indiana.

[ 23 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lt. Gordon von Kalinowski is Commanding Officer of an
LST, at present attached to the training flotilla ATB, Little
Creek, Virginia. Home: 127 Livingston Place, New Orleans,
Louisiana.

Captain William J. Longan wrote from Southern England
on March 4. He reports having seen Hugh Ashcraft, who
flew down for a little visit with him. Home: Park Lane,
Glenbrooke Hills, R.F.D. 2, Richmond, Virginia.

Captain A. R. DeLong, writing “from the wrong side of the
Atlantic but the right side of the Siegfried Line,” is now with
the Ninth Army after having been in Patton’s Third for some
time, is now in the 95th Division Artillery, which has been
his home for almost three years. He says the only Washing-
ton and Lee man he has run into is Gus Stombock, ’41. Home:
3316 Rowland Place, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Lt. Henry Thomas Martin has received a decoration from
the RAF and the Air Medal from the U.S. Navy for serving
as a technical observer for the RAF in England. He returned
from England in December and served at Pearl Harbor sev-
eral months until returning to this country for a leave. He
wears the Purple Heart for wounds received aboard the USS
Quincy. Home: 611 Denniston Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

Capt. A. T. (Junie) Bishop is now stationed on Iwo Jima
as the Statistical Officer in a P-51 Fighter Group. He has
seen Terry Blandford there and spent several days with Cam-
eron Dean in Hawaii en route to Iwo. Terry is a Captain in
the Army Air Force, and on his way home now for a 45-day
leave. Cameron is a Lt. (j.g.) and stationed in Hawaii. Home:
122 Westover Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

Sgt. John B. MacBride, waist gunner on the crew of a
B-17 Flying Fortress, has recently been awarded a second
Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal. He won the decoration
for “courage, coolness and skill” and his outstanding per-
formance of duty during a number of Eighth Air Force at-
tacks on German war targets. The gunner won his wings at
Las Vegas Gunnery School in June, 1943. He is now a mem-
ber of the 408th Bomb Group, a unit of the Third Bombard-
ment Division, the division cited by the President for its
historic England-Africa shuttle bombing of the Messerschmitt
plant at Regensburg, Germany. Home: Narberth, Penna.

Tom Garten is Sales Promotion Director with Radio Sta-
tionW PAR in Parkersburg, West Virginia. His home address
is 2402 East Washington Street, Charleston, West Virginia.

1942

Robert T. Vaughan, Class Agent for 1942, who has been
connected with the legal department of a government agency
in New Orleans, Louisiana, has returned to his home in
South Boston, Virginia, where he is now associated with
S. B. Settle in the practice of law.

Major Louis S. Rehr, a B-26 Marauder medium bomber
squadron commander, led his formation 6,000 feet below the
briefest altitude to bomb the target. He has been awarded
the Distinguished Flying Cross for this act. Major Rehr was
leading a formation of 36 Marauders last November 19 on an
attack against Merzig, Germany, a strongpoint opposing
General Patton’s Third Army near the Rhine, when he en-
countered a heavy undercast covering the target. Although
the town was known to be heavily defended by flak batteries,
the pilot took his plane down to approximately half the
briefest altitude to bomb with excellent results. The major’s

unit, the Ninth Air Force’s “White Tailed” 323rd Bombard-
ment Group, won a commendation from General Patton for
the effectivness of this attack, which virtually destroyed the
enemy's positions as well as hitting a factory. Major Rehr,
who has been overseas eleven months, has more than 50 com-
bat missions to his credit. In addition to his latest award,
he has won the Air Medal with nine bronze oak leaf clusters.
Home: care of Mr. Paul A. Rehr, Delroy Beach, Florida.

Sgt. Robert Floyd, top-turret gunner in a B-24 Liberator
of a 15th Air Force Group at an airbase overseas, has been
awarded the Air Medal for “meritorious achievement in aerial
flight.” Overseas since November, 1944, he is a veteran of nu-
merous combat missions against vital axis targets in the Ger-
man network of industrial sectors throughout Europe. Home:
810 Hewitt Street, Neenah, Wisconsin.

Lt. Ben A. Williams, in January, was in a hospital in France
recovering from a chest wound. This is the third time he has
been wounded and this was a close call. He expected to return
to his outfit within a short time. Home: Courtland, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Louis Aubrey (Pete) Pridham is Executive Officer
on an LST (Commanding Officer, Lt. Gordon von Kalinow-
ski, 41), Little Creek, Virginia. He has just returned from 19
months overseas duty as officer-in-charge of a crash boat. He
has seen action in Sicily, Salerno and Anzio. Home: 212 Nes-
bit Terrace, Irvington, New Jersey.

Marine First Lieutenant John Walter Stowers has re-
ported to the Cherry Point, North Carolina, Marine Corps
Air Station for duty with the Ninth Marine Aircraft Wing.
He enlisted in the Marine Corps on May 7, 1941, and was
commissioned on September 26, 1942. Home: Snowdoun.
Alabama.

1943

Lt. (j.g.) Donald E. Garretson is still on the Ancon, now
on duty in the Pacific. He greatly enjoyed his stay in South-
ern England. Home: 117 Green Bay Road, Winnetka, Illinois.

First Lt. Edwin A. Zelnicker, Jr., was recently promoted to
that rank at an Eighth Air Force Bomber Station in England,
a B-17 Flying Fortress unit. Home: 253 Park Terrace, Mobile,
Alabama.

James A. Jones was recently awarded the Bronze Star
Medal for meritorious service in France. Excellent work in
treating wounded combat men brought him the recognition
he deserved and the award. His home is at Route 1, Staunton,
Virginia.

Ensign Harold Willard Laughlin was commissioned an En-
sign in the Naval Reserve and designated a Naval Aviator re-
cently at the Naval Air Training Base, Pensacola, Florida. He
will be ordered to duty either at an instructor’s school for
further training or at an operational base. Home: 23 East
Woodbine Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

T/Sgt. Samuel J. Graham, Jr., has received a second oak
leaf cluster to his Air Medal for meritorious achievement
while participating in bombing attacks upon military, rail, and
industrial installations in Germany. Set. Graham is the radio
operator of an Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying Fortress. He
is also an aerial gunner. Home: 2903 Bayswater Avenue, Far
Rockaway, New York.

Lt. (j.g-) Joe Ellis was in Lexington for a short visit in
the spring of 1944, returning to the Pacific area. He has been

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

a gunnery and torpedo officer. His ship’s record to date 1s
16 Jap planes shot down plus 10 more probables; 2 carriers
sunk and 7 more bombardments.

First Lt. Alexander M. Maish graduated as a Second Lieu-
tenant from West Point in June, 1944, and is now overseas.
Home: “Old Keswick,” Cobham, Virginia.

Marine First Lt. Russell H. Neilson is a veteran of 114
combat missions and 500 flying hours. A bomber pilot, he has
recently returned from the Philippines where he was a mem-
ber of a First Marine Air Wing squadron. Home: 70 Pomeroy
Road, Madison, North Carolina.

John Hackney, Jr., has completed 16 weeks of work in Col-
gate University’s Navy Academic Refresher Unit (V-7) and
has reported to Columbia University’s Midshipman School.
All men were selected for officer qualities. Home: 1333 Corn-
wall Place, Norfolk, Virginia.

1944

Hardy L. F. Martin, tail gunner of the 391st “Black Death”
B-26 Marauder Group, has been promoted to sergeant. Home:
145 West Fifth Street, East Liverpool, Ohio.

Lt. Ewing S. Humphreys, Jr., USMCR, writes from over-
seas that he is just a “Marine overseas,” and can give no in-
formation as to his whereabouts. In the same camp with him
are Alley Lane, Carl Johnson, John Barrett and Jack MacCor-
mick.

Edward C. Waddington, Jr., was promoted to Staff Ser-
geant on March 15, 1945. His base has been moved from
England to somewhere in France. He was in England for
seventeen months.

Cpl. Everett J. Schneider now has an overseas address.
Home: 1505 Metropolitan Avenue, Parkchester, New York
62, New York.

Sgt. Clancy Johnson, Jr., is somewhere in the Marianas
and has been overseas since June, 1944. He is doing classifi-
cation work. Home: 605 West Walnut, Dalton, Georgia.

Alvin David Aisenberg, U.S. Navy, A.S., V-12, is in Med-
ical School in Baltimore, Maryland. Home: 3619 Rosedale
Road, Baltimore, Maryland. '

Pvt. Frank Joseph Di Loreto was severely wounded while
fighting with the Army in Germany and is now well on the
way to recovery in Lovell General Hospital (North), Ayer,
Massachusetts. Home address: 574 West Main Street, New
Britain, Connecticut.

Pfc. J. Allen Henry, Jr., has been in India with a Field
Hospital since September 21, 1944. Home address: 113 West
Powell Street, Yazoo City, Mississippi.

First Lt. James D. Johnstone, III, is somewhere in North-
ern Italy, with the First Armored Division. He was married
on May 6, 1944, to Miss Quilda McDaniel. Home address:
1524 Front Street, Georgetown, South Carolina.

Alex H. (Swoosh) Walker, after training at Camp Barkeley
and Fort Sam Houston, Texas, as a Medical Laboratory
Technician, was on a week’s leave prior to his return to
Camp Barkeley for final assignment, most likely, overseas.
Home address: 1005 Remington Road, Penfield Downs, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania,

Capt. Richard L. Duchossois is with a Tank Destroyer Bat-
talion somewhere in Germany. In March, 1945, he had been in
service for thirty-five months and has been overseas nearly a
year. In September of last year he received the Purple Heart
and later, the Bronze Star Medal. His son, Craig Jerome,
was born November 18, 1944, and is a prospective Washington
and Lee “Gentleman.” Home: 9152 South Leavitt Street,
Chicago 20, Illinois.

Sgt. William D. Burns, Jr., has been overseas two years,
in North Africa, Italy, and France on D-Day. He is now
probably in Germany. Home: 75 Inger Place, Joplin, Missouri.

Lt. Albert Fisher Breitung is in Maintenance Engineering.
He went into the B-29 program and became a Flight Engi-
neer. He is now on Instructor Flight Engineer. Home: Box
532, Port Jefferson, New York.

Lt. Kenelm Lawrence Shirk, Jr., has been awarded the Air
Medal and is entitled to wear the European-African- Middle
Kast Theatre Ribbon with one battle participation star. Home:
354 New Holland Avenue, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Capt. Lawrence E. Englert, Twelfth Air Force, has flown
more than 300 combat hours as a troop carrier pilot, in addi-
tion to 65 night fighter missions. In addition to the Silver
Star, he has received the Distinguished Flying Cross and
the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters. He is also au-
thorized to wear the Presidential Unit Citation Ribbon with
one cluster. Home: 354 East 23rd Street, Erie, Pennsylvania.

Second Lt. John H. Stansfield has recently added an oak
leaf cluster to his Air Medal for “courage, coolness and skill’
while participating in bombing attacks upon military and in-
dustrial targets in Germany. He is the navigator of an Eighth
Air Force B-17 Flying Fortress in the 385th Bombardment
Group. Home: 8 Stark Road, Worcester, Massachusetts.

Cpl. John Christopher Hemphill, Jr.. Army Air Force, is
stationed at Headquarters in Townsville, Australia, working
with the supply end of running a weather squadron, keeping
weather stations supplied. Home: 6834 Jeffery Avenue, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

Staff Sgt. J. Stuart Smith, Jr., is now serving in the Neth-
erlands East Indies with a squadron of the Fifth Air Force
Troop Carrier Command. Sgt. Smith is non-commissioned of-
ficer in charge of armament in his organization. He has also
served in Australia and New Guinea and has been awarded
the Good Conduct Medal and the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre
Ribbon with one campaign star. Home: care of Mrs. Julia W.
Smith, Lexington, Virginia.

Cpl. Clarence E. Ballenger has been in the South Pacific
for a year with the Marines. He was in the Okinawa inva-
sion. Home: Spartanburg, South Carolina.

2nd Lt. Leon Harris, Jr., is now located somewhere in the
Pacific area. He is a pilot on a B-24. Home: Anderson, South
Carolina.

1945

Don M. Castro, Jr., is a pilot for Naval Air Transport Ser-
vice, based in Alameda, California. They fly cargo and pas-
sengers throughout the Pacific. His son, Don M., III, was
born January 28, 1945.

Ensign R. E. Burriss, III, is in a U.S. Navy Section Base,
Key West, Florida, on a minesweeper, where he has been for

[ 25 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the past seven months. Like many other men who left school
before graduation, he says he expects to come back to Wash-
ington and Lee when the war is over. Home address: 311
North McDuffie Street, Anderson, South Carolina.

Sgt. Richard L. Corbin writes that he has seen quite a few
countries since going overseas. He has been in England,
France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany, and likes Hol-
land best. He is with General Hodges’ First Army. Home:
812 Luzerne Street, Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

Lt. John J. O’Leary was recently promoted to this rank.
He is a navigator on a Fifteenth Army Air Force B-24, he
has been overseas since October, 1944, and has flown over
25 missions against the Germans. He is the holder of the
Air Medal with one oak leaf cluster. Home: 3600 Valley Drive,
Ashland, Kentucky. (He has just been reported missing in
action since January, 1945).

Sgt. Fred R. Cottrell is an aid man of the Second Battalion,
168th “Rainbow” Regiment, recently awarded a Distinguished
Unit Citation. The award was formally presented to the
Battalion near Fifth Army frontlines in Italy. Home: care of
Mrs. Joe Hobson, Prestonburg, Kentucky.

Harry Franklin Brown was commissioned an Ensign in
the Naval Reserve and designated a Naval Aviator recently
at the Naval Air Training Bases, Pensacola, Florida. Home:
621 North Chester Road, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania.

Roy Johnson has recently been promoted to Technician
fourth grade. His promotion came in recognition of the ex-
cellent work he has been doing in a large hospital in Assam,
located along the supply routes to the Burma and China
fronts. Sgt. Johnson has been overseas for seventeen months
with the Army Medical Corps. Home: 145 North Clay Av-
enue, Ferguson, Missouri.

Gladwyn K. Noble, Coast Guardsman, Seaman, first class,
participated in the recent invasion of Okinawa, serving as a
crew member of a landing barge of the Coast Guard-manned
invasion transport to which he is attached. Home: 209 Sunset
Avenue, Englewood, New Jersey.

Roy D. Witte has been assigned as a navigator with a
B-25 Mitchell Bombardment Group, it is announced from
headquarters of the Twelfth Air Force in Italy. Bombing
targets in eight countries from the Balkans to Southern
France, the group began combat operations in Eastern Tu-
nisia in March, 1943. Lt. Witte’s Mitchell has frequently
been commended by high-ranking staff officers for brilliant
close support and pin-point bombing operations. Flying hun-
dreds of successful “bridge-busting’” missions in Italy, it
helped starve the enemy of supplies enabling ground troops
to throw him back from, Salerno to the Po Valley. Home:
860 Broadway, New York, New York.

Cpl. T. W. Somer is at an advanced radar bombing field,
Victorville, California. He is doing maintenance work on au-
tomatic pilots and Norden bombsights. Home: South Side,
Mason County, West Virginia.

Ensign Albert V. Zimmerman, Jr., is now somewhere in the
South Pacific. He was graduated from Midshipman’s School
at Northwestern, July 19, 1944. He was married on Novem-
ber 14, 1944, to Ann Cabell Walters. Home: 2523 Marye
Street, Alexandria, Louisiana.

Second Lt. Jack S. Sater has been awarded the second oak
leaf cluster to the Air Medal. He also wears the Distinguished

Flying Cross. This information came from the Tenth Air
Force, Burma. Although Lt. Sater has been in this theater
for only eight months, he has completed 215 missions in 645
hours flying time. He is serving with a combat cargo squad-
ron of the Tenth Air Force, one of the units that keep our
forces supplied in the field, often having to fly behind enemy
lines. Home: 511 West Main Street, Danville, Virginia.

Lt. Roland C. Rhea has been awarded the fourth oak leaf
cluster to the Air Medal for “meritorious achievement” while
participating in Eighth Air Force bombing attacks on vital
industrial targets in Germany. The AAF navigator is the
son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Rhea of 201 West Ninth
Street, Russellville, Kentucky.

Ensign Charles S. Rowe, USN, completed his study at the
Naval Training Station, Miami, Florida, was assigned to a
destroyer escort in the Pacific. He had a reservation on the
American Air Lines plane, which was wrecked near Marion,
Virginia, on February 25, but changed to another plane
leaving Washington at the same time.

Pfc. Roland E. Cote was inducted in February, 1943, went
to various training camps, and was for a short while a student
at Western Maryland College. He is now (April, 1945) at
Oahu, T.H. Home: 196 North River Road, Manchester, New
Hampshire.

Lt. Chadbourne B. Smith was recently promoted to the
rank of First Lieutenant. He is serving with a veteran Lib-
erator bombardment group which has flown more than 200
bombing missions against strategic enemy oil, rail and in-
dustrial targets throughout Central and Southern Europe.

Capt. Thomas B. Ballard is now stationed somewhere in
China. He is actively engaged with the Y-Force operations
staff under the command of Brig. General Frank Dorn, in-
structing the Chinese soldiers in the use of American weapons
and modern tactics. His job also includes serving as a liaison
officer with the Chinese Army in Combat. Capt. Ballard has
been promoted twice since being overseas. He has been in
China since March, 1943.

1946

First Lt. Paul J. Bates recently flew his 50th combat mis-
sion in Europe. He joined the USAAF in April, 1943, and won
his wings at Stuttgart, Arkansas, on January 5, 1944. In Italy
since September, Bates has been awarded the Air Medal with
three bronze oak leaf clusters. Home: RDS 3, Alexandria,
Virginia.

Pfc. William B. F. Bowman was wounded in action in Ger-
many on February 11, 1945. Wound described in message as
“penetrating right thigh.” He was later operated on, then
flown to hospital in England, from there he wrote on March
11 that he was getting along fine. A second report from the
hospital received with his letter stated “making normal im-
provement.” Home address: care of Mrs. Jean Bowman, Na-
tional Council Protestant Episcopal Church, 281 Fourth Av-
enue, New York, New York.

Ensign W. A. Magee is at Soldiers Field Station, Boston,
Massachusetts. He is attending the Navy Supply School at
Harvard University. Home address: 110 McDowell Street,
Lexington, Virginia.

First Lt. William W. Daniel was promoted to that rank by
his Thunderbolt group headquarters. He is a P-47 Thunder-
bolt pilot. Lt. Daniel has been cutting enemy supply lines,

[ 26 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

communication lines, harassing the front line troops, and dev-
astating their equipment since he joined the veteran group
last July. He wears the Distinguished Unit Badge with three
oak leaf clusters, and also the Mediterranean campaign rib-
bon with one bronze battle star. He has completed his 55th
mission over enemy territory. Home: 1705 Pelham Road, At-

lanta, Georgia.

Capt. William C. Breckinridge is an instructor at an Eighth
Air Force Fighter Station in England. While he handles a
course in geography and coast lines, other courses focus on
German interrogation, security, communications, air-sea res-
cue, combat films, and the actual swing to the Mustang type
aircraft. Transition from Florida flying to combat operations
over Germany and German-occupied continental Europe is
not easy for new Eighth Air Force P-51 Mustang pilots. In
most instances, the newly-arrived pilot is ready to battle the
Luftwaffe within four weeks after his arrival. Home address:
Fincastle, Virginia.

Cpl. George M. Schleicht is working in Operations in con-
nection with Intelligence, which plans all missions, the target
or targets to be bombed, route to be followed, type of bomb
to be used, etc. Home address: 26 Appleton Road, Glen
Ridge, New Jersey.

Lt. G. B. Stott is with the Army Air Force, San Francisco,
Port of Embarkation. Home address: 120 St. James Avenue,
Suffolk, Virginia.

David Lewis is a student at the Baltimore College of Dental
Surgery, Baltimore, Maryland. Home: 1713 Moreland Ave-
nue, Baltimore 16, Maryland.

Cpl. Jack Steitz, writing from Southern Italy, said he had
been in the hospital for two months with yellow jaundice.
He has seen much service, having been in North Africa, in
the battle of Cassina, crossed the Volturno River and the
Anzio bridgehead. Home: 9 West 10th Street, New York,
New York.

Roy Fahl, Jr., is in the Dutch East Indies in Army Air
Corps Radio Communications Service. He relates that he had
been on duty all night and had been in his bunk less than
two hours when he was pulled out by Lynch Christian and
Don Moxhan,, but they had to shove off before he was really
awake. Home: 317 North Chester Road, Swarthmore, Penn-
sylvania.

George Brown Petty graduated recently from the Naval
Air Training Bases, Corpus Christi, Texas, and was com-
missioned an Ensign in the Naval Reserve. Home: Sunset
Ridge, Northbrook, Illinois.

1947

Pvt. Mitchell Harris is serving with the Fleet Marine Force,
FPO, San Francisco. Home address: 96 Scott Street, Scotts-
boro, South Carolina.

W. H. Pifer, H.A. 1/C is recovering from rheumatic fever
in the U.S. Naval Hospital, Jacksonville, Florida. Home ad-
dress: 314 West Leicester Street, Winchester, Virginia.

1948

Private Douglas Pitts has completed his basic training at
Sheppard Field and has been sent to Military Police School
in Denver, Colorado. Home address: 1708 Maple Shade Lane,
Richmond, Virginia.

“How George Washington
Gave Away C. & O. Stock”

The above title appeared over the following item in the
column, “Everybody’s Business,” in the May 28 issue of the
Chicago Daily News:

“How times have changed! In the Brotherhood of Loco-
motive Firemen and Engineer's magazine you read the story
of the canal building enterprise which eventuated into the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway; of how George Washington
had a responsible part in the early beginnings of the railroad.

“But you also note that George Washington refused to ac-
cept 100 shares of stock in one of the original roads, later ac-
quired by the C. & O., which the General Assembly of Vir-
ginia awarded Washington ‘in appreciation of his interest
in the project.’ Washington turned the stock over to the Lib-
erty Hall Academy at Lexington, which later became Wash-
ington and Lee University.

“His reason for non-acceptance makes interesting reading
today in the light of the growth of internationalism. He is
quoted as saying that ‘the migration of American youth to
foreign countries for the completion of their education ex-
posed them to the dangers of imbibing political prejudices
disadvantageous to their republican form of government and
ought, therefore, to be rendered unnecessary and avoided.’

“Washington therefore donated the stock to the Liberty
Hall Academy to help foster education. Through refunding
arrangements the academy’s successor, Washington and Lee
University, continues to receive an annual income from this
gift.”

Lt. Comdr. Charles R. McDowell, on leave of absence from
the faculty of the Law School of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, is being indoctrinated for Air Controller at Pearl
Harbor. Previous to assignment to this area he was stationed
at the Jacksonville Naval Air Station.

Major Almand Coleman, ’26, on leave of absence from the
the faculty of the Department of Accounting of Washington
and Lee University, is now in the Army Ordnance Service,
Washington, D. C.

Captain William M. Hinton, ’30, on leave of absence from
the Department of Psychology and Education of Washington
and Lee University, is with the Army Separation Center,
Fort Meade, Maryland. t

Lt. R. Winter Royston, ’31, on leave of absence from the
Department of Mathematics of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, is in charge of the Naval Training Unit, Bowman Gray
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Mr. O. W. Riegel, on leave of absence as head of the Jour-
nalism Department of Washington and Lee University, is
now stationed in Italy with the Office of War Information.

Lt. Alex N. Veech, 31, Civil Engineer Corps, USNR, has
been stationed in San Diego, Calif., for the past three years,
but expects to receive overseas orders soon.

[ 27 |

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

 

¢ ot -
- b
- bs
‘ : a .
S ” eee
iu - *% ¥
SiS - ee
a : ae
As Ba
a4
>

Z| Ne PE ak
> \ Scat Tra Tg st oS

‘34 7
aging |S
ht ey |S
tw /~

A LTHOUGH a large order for Washington

and Lee plates was placed many months ago only a small shipment has

been received in this country, and we have no assurance as to further

deliveries.

The Alumni Office has been overwhelmed with orders for plates

since the advertisement appeared in the January issue of the magazine,

and we have no plates for sale until a further shipment is received.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

ie
le eee a li sn

 

 

 

 

 

 

i i

-
Z
—

 

