Alumni Magazine

_ Washington and Lee University

MAY, 1949

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Glee Club

of Washington and Lee University

presents a

PHONOGRAPH ALBUM

in the Bicentennial Year

ke

 

WASHINGTON & Let UNIVERSITT

 

COLLEGE FRIENDSHIPS

The Glee Club, one of W. and L.’s finest,
offers you a treasure in favorite school songs:

WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING
COLLEGE FRIENDSHIPS
TO WASHINGTON AND LEE (Hymn)
and four ageless choral classics

Five outstanding photographs of the campus
and Glee Club (cover shown at left) decorate
this handsome blue and white album, custom-
recorded by the Nelson Cornell Company.

Order your Washington and Lee song album
NOW through the University Supply Store,
exclusive dealer...
$5.50 includes insured shipping

 

 

 

 

 

——— ©

Appalachian —~Francis R. Russell, °43, Marion
: Publishing Co., Marion, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building

Baltimore Lawrence Galloway, "43, 1009
Woodbourne Avenue

pirmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Boston—William R. Nutt, '43, 80 Federal St.

Charleston, West Virginia—Kelley Reed, ‘37,
1714 Kanawha Boulevard

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Buiiding

Chicago—W. H. Hillier, °38, 5521 Blackstone

Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois
Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue
Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., °41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—Hugh C. Macfarlane, ‘40,
First Nat'l Bank Bldg., Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Robert C. Hobson, °40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—Peyton B. Winfree, °35, 3865
Peakland Place

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—W. J. L. Patton, ’22, National City
Bank, 55 Wall Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
'18, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—Harry Rand, '27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court

House

Philadelphis—Brank D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
treet

Piedmont—D. Newton Farnell, '24, Box 273,
Greensboro, North Carolina

Richmond—Kenneth P. Lane, °'36, Box 1538

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., ‘33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, °'15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, '15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., °38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. a iat Seal, '16, 726 Jack-

sun Place, N

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Editor .................. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Vol. XXIV MAY, 1949 No. 3

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pradidéat (Ge Amos Boten, 1934
Vice-President...........H&NRY P. Jounston, 1929
Secretary ............. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TrCQSUPED...........00cc00000s. WarrEN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Amos A. BoLEen, 1934
LLAURENCE W. Witson, 1910
Henry P. Jounston, 1929
FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911

WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. PuHILvips, 1908
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931
Leon W. Harris, 1915

ABOUT THE COVER

The academic procession files down the walk to Lee Chapel
for the April 12 Bicentennial Convocation. Behind Prof.
Charles P. Light, Jr., Marshal of the University, are Presi-
dent Francis P. Gaines and President Harold W. Dodds, of
Princeton. The procession included representatives of 123
institutions, learned societies and foundations, 90 of them
university and college presidents, on the campus to pay
respects at the 200th birthday celebration.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Impressions as the Year Passes

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

News stories on other pages carry accounts of three
notable celebrations held since the last issue went forth:
The Academic Celebration, with a meeting of the South-
ern University Conference on April 12; the meeting of
the Southern Association of Science and Industry in con-
junction with our School of Commerce and Administra-
tion on May 2 and 3; and the Centennial of the School of
Law on May 10 and 11.

3K K K K 2k

One impression that I got, an impression that every-
body got, was the smoothness of the performance. Each
function went off without a “bobble.” I must have a
hundred letters from fellow-educators or distinguished
guests voicing superlative emphasis for this achievement.
The fact is the result of so much intelligent planning and
such generous cooperation on the part of so many people
that I dare not try to distribute orchids. But I sincerely
believe that our guests departed not merely with an
awareness of the beauty of this institution but also with
respect for its functioning.

at ee ee

Another impression I carry vividly has to do with
the excellence of the programs. Dr. Dodds’s speech on
April 12 was a magnificent proclamation of the im-
portance of the independent institution of higher learn-
ing. The addresses which we furnished to the Business
Conference, delivered by Dean David of Harvard and
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, William McChes-
ney Martin, Jr., were definite contributions. The two
speeches by Trustee John W. Davis, initiating the John
Randolph Tucker Lectures, at the time of the Law Cele-
bration take their place among truly historic pronounce-
ments.

[ 4 ]

[ must make reference here to the excellent imp
sion created at all times by our students. Certain of
groups participated with intelligent response in many
the sessions ; but all the students overwhelmed our gue
by courtesy and dignity and the obvious qualities —
youthful power and promise.

ok 2K * x ok

One of the facts that I happily phrase and shall
ways remember is the extreme friendliness manifest
by the Virginia Military Institute. The Cadet Corps
that great institution gave a Review in our honor
April 12, marching smartly to the Washington and
Swing. The chief student officers of the Virginia M
tary Institute sent to our students a scroll of felicitatic
now reposing conspicuously in the lobby of Washingt
Hall. General Marshall and his staff have extended
numerable courtesies, most thoughtful and most uns
fish.

K k * k xk

My faltering imagination is staggered by this fe
that the first-day sales by the Lexington Post Office
our commemorative stamp went to 971,192. Mr. Grit
ley, Chairman of the general committee, and Profess
Irwin, Chairman of the local committee, did an immer
amount of work, end their efforts were crowned by ¢
tonishing success.

Bee

While we wait for the Alumni Reunion and the N.
tional Celebration in mid June, I send to our alumni
observation, that no institution of higher learning
America has brought to its campus more enriching co
ferences—or perhaps more distinguished guests—t

 

Washington and Lee has done in this memorable sessiot

Preside

y

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

The Academic Convocation

By Bill Bien

April 12 dawned as a misty, gray day
Lexington, but for Washington and
e was perhaps the most momen-
a occasion in two hundred years.
Within sight of the ruins of Liberty
Hall—ancestra! origin of Washington
of academic prominence
from all parts f the nation gathered to
celebrate the < the school's
third century of continuous service.

and Lee— men

opening of

They brought messages of congratu-
lations for two hundred years of suc-
cessful leadership, and a wish for great-
ness in the uncharted future. There were
them, officially representing col-

90 of la
leges and universities having an organi-
ational, functional, or historical rela-

tionship with Washington and Lee.

In addition to the officials of institu-
tions of higher learning, 23 academic so-
ciety representatives were invited to the
convocation tiny Lee Chapel—focal
point of the festivities marking the cli-
max of W. and L.’s 200th birthday year.

Only the invited academicians could be
allowed in the chapel to hear Dr. Harold
Willis Dodds, president of Princeton
University, speaking from the podium
just above the entombed body of Robert
E. Lee.

in

The invitation to President Dodds
was Washineton and Lee’s salute to
Princeton. The New Jersey school is

three years older than W. and L,., and
it was from Princeton and Princeton men that Washington
and Lee gained much of its cultural heritage.

President Dodds’ message echoed ominously amid the
general expressions of gratitude. He warned Washington and
Lee that the next two hundred years may be still harder.

“Unless all present signs fail, the future of the tax-sus-
tained institution is growing increasingly secure, while that
of the private is growing increasingly insecure.”

He to the challenge facing such independent
schools as Princeton and Washington and Lee—the institu-
tions which must stand as “islands of independence and which
are best equipped for combating a worm’s eye view of life.”

“Don’t misunderstand me,” Dr. Dodds continued. “I re-
i America’s unique patterns of higher education in which
Tivate

pointed

pr and public enterprise complement each other in
‘riendly competition, and I want to see it continue and pros-
per.

“When private enterprise fades out of higher education
In America, freedom, as we value it, fades with it. We cannot
Permit ourselves ever to drift into a system of thought con-
trol by which government, no matter how high minded its
Ofcials, does all our educational thinking for us....

Dr. Dodds quoted Dr. Gaines as saying once that the
tragedy of the age is fear, and the irony of it that men fear
Hot things but men themselves. Comments Dr. Dodds: “It

?

9

 

President Harold Willis Dodds, of Princeton University, addresses the Bicenten-
nial Convocation in Lee Chapel on April 12. The distinguished audience contained
123 educators, including presidents of 90 colleges and universities.

is not atomic energy we are afraid of, but it is how men will
use that energy.”

Hundreds of guests, including many alumni, who could
not squeeze into Lee Chapel, heard the dedicatory convo-
cation through loudspeakers set up at various spots on the
campus.

The birthday festivities began early in the morning, as the
United States government recognized Washington and Lee’s
place in educational history.

Assistant Postmaster General Joseph J. Lawler took part
in ceremonies incident to opening sales of the first stamp
ever issued honoring an educational institution. He presented
an album of the stamps to Dr. Gaines during the service.

At mid-morning, Washington and Lee presented honor-
ary degrees to thirteen distinguished men in various fields
of endeavor.

Following the formal events, the delegates went to Natural
Bridge Hotel, where they enjoyed a Smorgasbord luncheon.
During the meal, Brigadier-General Edgar E. Hume, presi-
dent of the order of the Society of the Cincinnati in Virginia,
presented Dr. Gaines with the society’s official medal for
outstanding leadership.

The principal luncheon speaker was Dr. William Pomfret,
president of the College of William and Mary.

Afternoon activities were climaxed by a full dress review

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 
 

 

ee Fe :

“The Corps never looked better’”—General Marshall to which the institution is put for

of the V. M.I. cadets, their first of the year in full summer
uniform. Dr. Gaines and several other distinguished guests
were invited to the reviewing stand to receive salutes from
the corps beside Major-General Richard C. Marshall, Super-
intendent of the Institute.

 

Editorial Comment

On the day after Washington and Lee celebrated its 200th
birthday with a festive academic convocation, Dr. Douglas
Southall Freeman, Editor of the Richmond News Leader,
and one of the nation’s best known historians, wrote the fol-
lowing editorial in The News Leader:

“President Harold W. Dodds, of Princeton, would not
have voiced rightly the congratulations all liberal arts col-
leges are extending Washington and Lee if he had not in-
cluded yesterday in his address at the climactic observance
of the beloved school’s bicentenary a warning that the next
200 years will be harder. Said President Dodds: ‘Unless all
present signs fail, the future of the tax-supported institutions
is growing increasingly secure, while that of the private is
growing increasingly insecure.’

“State-supported schools share in larger public revenues;
privately-endowed institutions suffer because their bene-
factors financially are drained by taxation in order to pro-
vide expanded public funds. This does not mean that State or
Federally sustained education is to destroy the established
liberal arts college or the university that is a center of re-
search. It is not probable, specifically, that the State uni-
versity, be it ever so bountifully financed, will be able in the
foreseeable future to supplant Harvard, or Yale, or Colum-
bia, or Princeton, or Chicago; but those great institutions
have to realize that large gifts to endowment are not to be
expected otherwise than on the death of a handful of mil-
lionaires of a generation now fading out. A few such philan-
thropists will have enough, at death, to add great endow-

[ 6 ]

 

  
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
    
 
  
     
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
    
  
   

ments. Some gifts may be expected y
by year through the ‘15 per cent inegp
tax deduction.’ The most hopeful
of the finances of these private ins;
tions cannot overlook the fact that
increase of $100,000 a year in support
a State institution is by no meay
legislative rarity but is equivalent t¢
successful campaign by a privately-s
ported school for $3 million of 4g
manent endowment.

“There is at present one hope ¢
for these liberal arts schools that
been of value beyond all human reck
ing: they must introduce, in effec
system of education at cost on a bs
of deferred payment. This is not as
philanthropic as it sounds and it n
need become formalized in contrac
obligations. What it implies is that j
man goes to Washington and Lee
Princeton, or the University of Ri
mond, or any similar school, he gets
academic instruction at approximat
half its actual cost. Friends of educat
gave the colleges money enough at so
previous time to yield interest that p
approximately 50 per cent of the expe

student. When the student goes ay
from college with his diploma in his needed specialized t
ing, he should realize that he will be pulling his weight in
boat if he pays back the difference between his tuition and
actual cost. This can be done most readily in annual gifts
the alumni fund. If this ‘living endowment’ reaches yearly
difference between cost and income, the future of the aver
college financially is secure. We do not know of a single ot
device by which financial requirements can be met. ALUM

FUNDS ARE LIFELINES.”

President Francis P. Gaines is presented with the Eagle of t
Society of the Cincinnati in Virginia by Brigadier Gene
Edgar Erskine Hume, president of the society.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Southern University Conference

Washington and Lee’s Bicentennial Convoca-
tion, ranking heads of Southern colleges and univer-
sities remained in Lexington for the Southern University
Conference, held on the W. and lL, campus, April 13-14.
The delegates to the conference discussed educational
problems, and listening to prominent educators like George
&. Zook, president of the American Council on Education.

many)

Dr. Zook took issue with college administrators who see
q diminishing of quality as a result of expansion of higher
reach larger masses of “latent talent in this
country which is going to waste for lack of development.”

The day before, Dr. Zook had attended the convocation
ceremonies in Lee Chapel, and had heard President Harold
Willis Dodds of Princeton University ask: “Which is more
truly democratic—a mediocre college education for millions
or a quality education for some hundreds of thousands?”

Dr. Zook’s idea is that: “In the process of expansion there
may be some temporary falling off in quality, and a little less
attention to quality than there ought to be, but people in-
terested in expansion do not seem to be guilty of not being

education to
; 1

interested in improvement.”

Commenting on the recent report of the President’s Com-
mission on Higher Education, of which he was chairman, Dr.
Zook said: “While the commission did not go anything like
as far as the President's Committee on Civil Rights in de-
manding that federal funds be withdrawn from those states
which separate educational facilities for the two
races, it did condemn the practice in principle in no uncer-
tain terms, recommending that state laws providing for
segregation in education be repealed.”

establish

Dr. Zook then had this to say: “To me there is no alter-
native to the Commission’s recommendations on this matter
if we are to live up to the fundamental law of our country as
interpreted by the Supreme Court.”

Another nationally prominent speaker on the agenda was
Dr. Karl E. Lieb, president of the National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association, who called upon the delegates “to make it
clear that the conduct of intercollegiate athletics is a faculty
and administration matter and alumni and students should
be on tap and not on top in the conduct of athletic programs.”

Referring to a “win-or-else” attitude among alumni and
athletic fans, Dr. Lieb said: “coaches and athletic officials.
“upported sometimes by alumni and legislative groups, now
feel they can challenge the authority of the institution heads
and faculty.”

After the talk. Dr. John E. Pomfret, president of William
and Mary said that “speaking unofficially for half a dozen
es steutions, we are trying to bring our schools into
he code, but what we don’t want to do is sign this
Code and then go about creating ‘fictitious’ jobs,” which he
aa haley “hurt the morale of our students and injure the
ys © go along on such a fake proposition.

. a Pomfret was referring to the NCAA provision that
= my be aided through legitimate work programs in
followed ie Ina discussion of the Sanity Code” which
rss Lieb's address, one college president declared
'y realistic solution to the growing professionalism

ate athletics would be the “complete elimination

Or Intercol |; oO}
Ot ch- oO} ' ' -
Charging admission at the gate.

 

Memorial Bench Presented
by Omicron Delta Kappa

An additional attraction during the Bicentennial celebra-
tions on April 12 was the presentation of a memorial granite
bench to the University by Omicron Delta Kappa.

The circular brick and granite bench was given to com-
memorate the founding of ODK on the Washington and Lee

campus in 1914, and the brief dedication ceremonies took
place late in the afternoon in drizzling rain.

Rupert N. Latture, W. and L. professor of political science
and one of the founders of the national leadership fraternity,
said the bench is a gift from the national society, including
60 chapters in major colleges and universities scattered
throughout the United States.

Dr. R. C. McDanel, chairman of the department of his-
tory at the University of Richmond and president of ODK,
represented the national body at the ceremony.

The bench is constructed of four slabs of grey granite
from Mount Airy, North Carolina, and set upon a brick base.
It stands near McCormick library, just in front of the Univer-
sity Supply Store, which was formerly the university dining

hall.

Ewey

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Comemmorative Stamp Issued

 

President Francis P. Gaines (center) received an album of
the Washington and Lee stamps from Joseph J. Lawler
(right), third assistant Postmaster-General, as Roy J. Grim-
ley, ’21, looks on. Grimley presided at the stamp presentation
ceremony on the campus on April 12.

 

On April 12, Washington and Lee became the first educa-
tional institution in the United States ever commemorated
by a postage stamp.

In connection with the Bicentennial convocation—academ-
ic high-point of the school’s 200th birthday—the Post Office
Department issued a three-cent blue and white stamp, with
portraits of George Washington and Robert E. Lee imposed
on a campus colonnade scene.

The First-Day-of-Issue ceremony was held in Doremus
Gymnasium early in the morning. A corps of press photogra-
phers from various wire services and newspapers popped
away as The Honorable Joseph J. Lawler, Assistant Post-
master General, presented an album of the stamps to Dr.
Gaines.

Roy J. Grimley, ’21, chairman of the University Stamp
Committee, presided at the event. It was largely through his
efforts that the stamp was issued.

Widely known in the philatelic world, Grimley peppered
Washington officials with good excuses for the stamp, and
won his case.

Along with the actual stamp, Washington and Lee issued
an official first-day cover, inscribed with the university’s
seal. Proceeds from the sale of covers—the only official en-
velopes for the occasion—are going to the Student War
Memorial Scholarship Fund. Latest figures indicate the cov-
ers will give the scholarship fund at least $2500. The drive is
aiming for $10,000, and the total presently approaches $4,000.

 

 

Every alumnus of Washington and Lee was mailed one of
the official first-day covers, with the five-color engraving of
the school seal, and the three-cent W. and L. stamp.

The Stamp ceremony, originally tabbed as an outdos
event, was moved into Doremus Gymnasium as rain stagge
falling—a misty rain which fell all day April 12. Dr. Jam
Lewis Howe, professor emeritus of Chemistry, gave the j
vocation, and Dr. L. J. Desha, Executive Director of ¢
Bicentennial, delivered a welcoming address.

 

Dr. Gaines delivered the response to the stamp present
tion, and the Washington and Lee Glee Club sang seve
college songs before the benediction by Dr. J. J. Mur
pastor of Lexington’s Presbyterian church.

The Bicentennial Stamp Committee included: Roy
Grimley, ’21, Chairman; Chapin Morse Boyd, °49; Honoraf
Clarence J. Brown, °16; Edmund D. Campbell, ’18; Ha
St. George Carmichael, "99; Honorable John W. Davis,
Dr. L. J. Desha, 06; Honorable John W. Flannagan, §
Honorable Carter Glass, Jr., °13; Dr. James Lewis How
John C. Morrison, ’25; Lloyd A. Myers, Jr., °13; and De
Clayton EK. Williams, °12.

 

Twenty-one out of 27 Washington and Lee law studeg
who took the Virginia state bar examinations in Decem
were successful.

 

 

Oldest “Rat,” Youngest “Mink’—Gilbert Wilson, class

??, is fascinated by the Confederate regalia of General Jam
W. Moore, meanwhile ignoring the pretty album of blue
white postage stamps the General is trying to show ht
General Moore, ’97, and oldest living graduate of V.M.L.,

tended the Bicentennial Celebration as the guest of the Ce
federate Stamp Alliance. The hand restraining “Junior”
unidentified, probably his dad, class of 1949,

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

The School of Law Centennial

Washingt n and Lee paused in its hectic schedule of Bi-
ntennial celebrations on May 12 to observe another birth-
ce

fay—the hundredth anniversary of the founding of its School
day—

of Law. ‘ . . . .
; Leading roles in the ceremonies went to prominent alumni

¢ Washington and Lee, including four members of Virginia's
Court of Appeals and a former Democratic nomi-
sident of the United States.

Davis, class of 95, was recalled to the campus
frst annual John Randolph Tucker lectures, es-
onor of the man who served as dean of the
and Lee law school during Mr. Davis’ student

seven-man
nee for Pre

John \
to deliver t!
tablished in
Washingto!
years.
~ John \\
in 1924, and
England. Hi
in New York

Mr. Davis, who has appeared before the United States
Supreme Court oftener than any other lawyer in history, was
introduced the convocation ceremonies in Lee Chapel by
Dean Clayton E. Williams.

In a stirring defense of the constitutional guarantees of
‘individual dignities, Mr. Davis deplored what he termed
“breaches in the constitutional wall’ and the development of
a “welfare state” philosophy in the United States.

The breaches he cited are “the broadened definition of
the power given to Congress to regulate interstate and for-
eign commerce,’ and Congress’ “uncontrolled and uncon-
trollable power to collect funds from the citizen and spend
them at will.”

“The Constitution,” said Mr. Davis, “is not a compound
of metaphysical subtleties. Its language is as plain and direct
as its great architects could frame and its meaning is not to

Davis was Democratic candidate for President
later served as United States ambassador to
now heads one of the nation’s great law firms

 

4

ed > i
ah
a

ee

ee a
a”
a

.

 

sha purchaser of the Washington and Lee postage stamp
; as Bill Bien, 49, as the commemorative issue went on sale
t Lexington on April 12.

 

Four justices of Virginia’s seven-man Supreme Court of
Appeals—all of them graduates of the Washington and Lee
School of Law—return to their alma mater to claim the hon-
orary Doctor of Laws degree at the convocation marking the
centennial of the law school founding. Shown receiving the
academic hood (center of picture) is Abram Penn Staples, ’08,
with (left to right) Herbert B. Gregory, ’11, John W. Eggles-
ton, 710, and Archibald C. Buchanan, ’14. President Francis
P. Gaines (front) is reading the citations and John W. Davis,
95, is seated at the left.

 

be whittled away by substituting ‘interpretation’ for the
orderly processes of direct amendment.”

In regard to Congress Mr. Davis said it “may now tax and
tax and spend and spend with none to say it nay....It is
clear that if the benevolence of the Congressional intent is
the only criterion for the spending power, it has no percep-
tible boundaries whatever.”

During the convocation four Washington and Lee alum-
ni—members of the Virginia Court of Appeals—were given
honorary law degrees. They were: Archibald C. Buchanan,
‘14; John William Eggleston, ’06; Herbert Bailey Gregory,
"ll; and Abram Penn Staples, ’08.

Another alumnus honored by presentation of an honorary
law degree was Judge Jake Fisher, 93, of the Fourteenth
Judicial Circuit of West Virginia.

In addition, two other prominent jurists were given de-
grees. They are Frederick D. G. Ribble, dean of the Univer-
sity of Virginia law school, and Chief Justice Arthur T. Van-
derbilt, of the Supreme Court of New Jersey.

Among the guests of honor was Mrs. Woodrow Wilson,
whose father, the late Judge William H. Bolling, was a
graduate of Washington and Lee’s law school in 1858. The
school at that time was known as the Lexington Law School,
founded in 1849. It was made a part of Washington College
during the presidency of General Robert E. Lee.

Preceding the formal convocation in Lee Chapel, there
was an “open house” in Tucker Hall, which houses the School
of Law.

[9 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Program for Reunion, June 16-18

The “Old Grads” of Washington and Lee will be flooding
into Lexington in a few days for the biggest alumni reunion
ever staged here.

Alumni Secretary Cy Young already is making plans for
more than a thousand W. and L. graduates, representing ev-
ery class back to the 90’s. And they’ll be coming from all
parts of the globe. Even now advance registratioin letters
have been received from California, Mexico, and South
America.

It’s going to be a big affair, and Dr. L. J. Desha, Bicen-
tennial Director, is asking all alumni to register promptly
when they reach Lexington in order to ease the last-minute
push.

Housing will be available, according to the Bicentennial
office, even for late comers. Arrangements have been made
to lodge alumni and wives in Lexington’s hotels, at Natural
Bridge, and in tourist homes and fraternity houses near the
campus.

bin

 

FOR STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT. .

MARK: PARK SAURS

   

 
 

ELECT : fs

ELECTS. : Rody Bave npc rt

Bill Clements Finals President

ANCY DRESS PRESIDEN! § vperuence Count
Qua! fed ome The Ja.

Everyone voted but “Louie” (center) in annual campus elec-
tions as 1135 students cast ballots in administering the worst
defeat ever suffered by the “Big Clique.” Mark Saurs (left),
of Louisville, an independent candidate, was named president
of the 1949-1950 student body.

[ 10 |

   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

don’t worry whether to come “stag” or not,
Young says more than half of the returning graduates
bring wives along. They'll enjoy the affairs of this nati¢
Bicentennial Celebration too.

And

Here’s the way the program runs for the three-day me
ing: |
Thursday, June 16, 2-9 p.m.—Registration. A circus
will be put up in the grass plot in front of Doremus
nasium to serve as headquarters. Local and out-of-town ak
ni will register here, and will receive the badges that ad
them to the other events.
8-10 p.m.—Informal gathering in the tent for alumni
their ladies. .

Friday, June 17, 8-10 a.m.—Registration continues,

10-10:30 a.m.—A service of thanksgiving and praye
Lee Chapel, conducted by the Rev. John N. Thomas, D
class of 1924, of Richmond.

11 a.m.—Alumini, Inc., holds its annual meeting in De
mus Gymnasium. Alumni will be seated by classes. Presi¢
Francis P. Gaines will be the speaker.

Noon—Parade of classes from the gymnasium to the
morial Gateway. University officials and visiting dignite
will “review” the parade from the porch of the Student Ur
building.

12:30 p.m.—Reunion barbecue. The standard bearer
each class will put down his placard at a designated spot
der the trees near the gateway, his classmates will
around this point, and the alumni and their wives will be
guests of the University at a barbecue.

2:30-3 p.m.—A transcription of the highlights of the
centennial academic ceremonies on April 12th will be pla
in Lee Chapel. These events were rcorded by the Journa
department on its electronic tape recorder.

3-5 p.m.—University buildings will be open for inspect
and alumni may hold group meetings or fraternity reumi
as they desire.

5-6 p.m.—Dr. and Mrs. Gaines will be hosts to the alt
ni and their wives at a reception at the President’s House.
9 p.m.-1 am.—Alumni Dance in Doremus Gymnasium

Saturday, June 18, 11 a.m.—National Bicentennial Com
cation. The Hon. James F. Byrnes, formerly Secretary of St
will be the speaker; honorary degrees will be awarded tot
prominent in public service; the faculty will attend in
demic costume, and Dr. Gaines will preside at the cone
ing ceremonies of the Bicentennial Year.

 

Floyd McRae, 45, Becomes Advertising Executive

Floyd W. McRae, Jr., is one of the incorporators
Vice-President—of an Atlanta advertising agency.
Scott, Inc., formed to continue the bt
ness carried on by the late founder as an individual,
whose son, Robert H. Scott, Jr., is Secretary-Treasurer of
new agency. McRae will serve as an Account Executive.
was associated with the advertising department of Rie
department store for a year and a half.

the
agency is Robert H.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Resumé of Spring Sports

By Bill Bien

ippling injuries and losses for various reasons,

Despite a , |
nd Lee has had a fairly creditable spring sports

\Washingtol

ord. ; |
The Ger rals worst statistics show up in baseball. where
the diamond uad has

won seven games and cs

lost ten. it’s the

tory up t May lo,

anyway.

the Generals had garnered one more first place in both meets,
they would have won.

Three W. and L. track and field men have led the way
this spring. Wally Oref, dimunitive javelin thrower and shot
putter, has won the
state championship
| for javelin. He is a
2? | sophomore from Elm

Grove, West Virginia.

Howeve! Cap n
Smith has ted his
-harges TO satisitving
’ c - * .
victories ovel the l ni-
versity 0! Virginia,

. } 4 )
Richmond, d Nw
within the tate. In

out-of-stat

imes the

Last year Oref placed
third in the Southern
Conference but won't
compete again until
late in May. Coach
Harry Broadbent says
Oref will be a strong
contender for first-

Generals hav: knocked
like Uni-
Michigan
wn. But

off powers
versity of
and Georget
the losses have been in
Southern Conference
competition. As far as
league tilts have gone,
W. and L. has ap-
peared hexed

The state standings
show Was! ‘ton and

Lee runnins almost
out of the money, with
a 3-won, 4-lost record.

One bright spot in

the diamond picture is
the brilliant hurling of
GI freshman Jim
Maver, fri Larch-
mont, New York. Ma-
ver turned
ticularly utstanding
performanc: against
Richmond last month.
Unimpressed by the
Spiders, although they
appear headed for the
Old Dominion cham-
bionship, Maver set ’em down with five hits, and gave his
‘cammates the impetus for a 6-1 victory.

one par-

Only three General batsmen have hit the ball consistent-
ly. Brian Bell, captain and first bastman, is slugging at about
a 375 clip. The other two power hitters are second-baseman
Fred Vins and shortstop Charlie Agnor. Both are hitting
above .300
_ Washington and Lee’s track team has won one meet in
‘our starts, but still appears on the right path, after several
dismal sea ns following the war.
ce Gi nerals licked Randolph-Macon, and came within a

Points of Richmond and William and Mary. In fact, it

 

Billy Key

place honors this year.

Pete White, W. and
L.s hurdling ace,
placed second in the
state meet in that cate-
gory. Another point-
builder has been Jim
Gallivan, a dash man.

Meanwhile Wash-
ington and Lee’s var-
sity crew has knocked
off four nationally
known opponents, and
has lost to three. Vic-
tims include rowing
powers such as Tam-
pa, Marietta, Amherst,
and a crew from Yale
University.

And W. and L,.’s re-
cently recognized la-
crosse team is. still
building for the future.
The stickmen won two
games by the middle
of May, trouncing
North Carolina and
William and Mary. In
addition they battled
Olympic Champions Rennsaeller Polytechnic Institute to the
final gun in a nip ’n tuck battle, but finally succumbed to su-
perior reserve strength.

Best news of the year has been Washington and Lee’s out-
standing flock of freshman athletes.

I.ven last fall it was evident that the first-year men were
potentially great athletes, when the Brigadier football team
won four games and lost only one. During the winter the
freshman teams ran up a string of 12 basketball victories with
a single loss, while the wrestling squad remained undefeated.
So far the yearling baseball team has licked 10 opponents,
and has dropped only two games. (See next page)

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Harrison Kinney, °47

The November issue of The Alumni Magazine carried a
resume of a story written by Harrison Kinney, B.A., °47,
published in the October 23 issue of The Saturday Evening
Post, called “The Lonesome Bear.” This has been followed
by another story by Harrison, “Father Was a Talent Scout”
in the December issue of Collier’s.

“The Friendly Bear,” somewhat revamped and extended,
is now in process of publication as a boy’s book, which will
be profusely illustrated.

Harrison is now doing graduate work in journalism at Co-
lumbia University.

 

Spring Sports
(Continued from page 11)

In minor sports, too, there is aid coming from the fresh-
men. The Washington and Lee golf team, for instance, has
won six matches and lost just one. There’s a big reason for
that golf record, by the way, and his name is Billy Key, an
18-year-old youngster from Columbus, Georgia. His record
already stamps him as one to watch, and some people say he
may one day recapture for his native state the golfing glory
once won by the incomparable Bobby Locke.

After seven matches, Key is racing forward with a six-
under-par total, and has been averaging 71 strokes per game
on the difficult Lexington course.

Other yearling aces include Billy Mauck, a pitcher from
Richmond, who has been zipping them past opposing batsmen
this spring, and Jack Eubanks, a flinger from Shelby, North
Carolina. Tal Trammell and Dave Waters have been doing
good work on second and third base, respectively, and both

[ 12 |

 
   
     
   
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  

are also good football prospects. Freshman shortstop 4
Streuli has won praise from coaches, and so has Frank Su
mers, Jr., for his work in right field. Summers is the son
VMI’s athletic director.

say Arnold is another lad who will help Washington ar
Lee’s football and baseball teams next year. Unfortunate}
he has missed most of the baseball season this spring, ny
ing an injured ankle.

While various teams have been running through ¢hg
paces, Washington and Lee’s new football coach, Gegp
Sarclay, has pushed his gridmen through four weeks of grue
ing practices in the warm spring weather.

Barclay installed his split-T formation officially, and
enthusiastic about the way the players picked up the new ¢
tem. And he says there are several fine prospects on the
up next fall, including freshman guard Dick Schaub, pasgg
quarterbacker Gil Bossetti, Trammell, and Dave Waters ~

The new coach has also uncovered latent talent in Ji
Kerneklian, a bulky tackle from Richmond, who warmed #
bench for two seasons. After watching for several weeks Bg
clay said Kerneklian may easily move into a starting tack
slot next fall.

a

 

ADDITION TO LEE ARCHIVES

Five important original letters penned by General Robe
Kk. Lee during and immediately following the War Betw
the States have been added to the Lee archives.

The letters were presented to the University by an alup
nus, Walter McElreath, 94, of Atlanta, in memory of }
friend, the late Paul M. Penick, °96, who served as treasy
of Washington and Lee, 1913-40. The letters were delive
by Miss Mary Monroe Penick, of Lexington, daughter
the honoree, then placed in the Lee archives at the Unive
sity’s McCormick Library.

Four of the Lee letters were addressed to General Jam
Longstreet and the fifth is an 1863 epistle to Brigadier-Ge
eral Howell Cobb, who was commanding troops in Flori
at the time. Before the war General Cobb was Speaker of
U. S. House of Representatives.

Two of the missives to General Longstreet were marke
“confidential” and contained military information on tro
deployment and logistics. In one, General Lee explained
some detail to his subordinate the critical supply situatit
which existed in 1864, particularly with regard to obtain
forage for cavalry horses. ;

The letters furnish added evidence of the Confedera
leader’s desperate task of keeping an army in the field duril
the final year of the war. They also reveal the unusual t
and shrewdness Lee exercised in his exchanges with Gene
Longstreet. In one instance he is replying to Longstre
request to take leave for a visit to Petersburg, leaving the fil
decision to Longstreet himself but advising him to consid
the effect his absence might have upon the troops of 3
command.

Addressed to General Longstreet a year after the
ended, one of General Lee’s letters expresses appreciation
a business proposition tendered him by Longstreet, but €
plains that “for the present I must remain where I am. WH
| see that I have done all the good that I can accomplish
Washington College, I may find it necessary to do som
thing that will enable me to procure a competence for ®@
family. I will then turn my hand to whatever may offer.
myself I want nothing but food and clothes.”

President Gaines stated, “These letters are acquisiti€
of greatest importance in themselves and will also provG
hope, suggestive to other alumni and friends who may th
wish to honor and strengthen the University.”

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

With the Local Chapters

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

About 20 Washington and Lee alumni and their wives
met in Boston tor dinner on April 22, 1949, to survey the pos-
“bility of forming an association in the Boston Metropoli-
fan area, and the idea was enthusiastically received. Phe new
chapted was formed and William R. Nutt, 43, New England
\utual Life Insurance Company, 80 Federal Street, soston,
Massachusetts, was elected President, and Jack B. Pierce,
37, 16 Argilla Road, Ipswich, Massachusetts, Secretary-

Treasurer.
* cd *x* * *

FLORIDA WEST COAST

The Florida West Coast Chapter held its annual dinner
meeting on February 22, 1949, at the Bath Club (part of the
Tides Hotel) which is located directly on the beach of the
Gulf of Mexico, near St. Petersburg and Tampa, Florida.

Forty alumni and guests held an informal reception on
the Terrace, followed by dinner in the Breezy Room, at
which B. L. Malone, Jr., ’24, of St. Petersburg, president of
the chapter presided. The room was prettily decorated in a
theme in recognition of George Washington and Robert E.
Lee and the University itself climaxed with a white birthday
cake with two blue candles.

Hugh C. Macfarlane, 40, of Tampa, was elected president
of the chapter for the coming year, and Horace W. Bitten-
bender, 40, of St. Petersburg, was elected secretary.

; * * * * *

UPPER POTOMAC

The spring meeting of the Upper Potomac Chapter was
held on Friday, April 29, at the Elks Club, Cumberland,
Maryland, with J. Goodloe Jackson, President, presiding.

Mr. Thomas N. Berry, ’38, formerly a member of the New
York Chapter, was welcomed as a new member.

Mr. George Barclay, the new head coach, addressed the
gathering and gave a very interesting report of the plans
made for the coming year and the prospects for the football
team. Mr. Carl Wise also spoke and football films of the
games played last season were shown.

The Chapter had as their guests a number of prospective
students and also the football coaches of the high schools in
the adjoining area.

Mr. William L. Wilson, Jr., gave a brief report of the re-
sults of the Bicentennial drive and the plans for continuing
the drive with the Alumni Fund.

ok mK * * BS

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, President of Washington
and Lee University, addressed a group of some 250 District
ot Columbia Alumni and friends at a dinner honoring the
United States Washington and Lee Bicentennial Commis-
‘ton at the Mayflower Hotel, on Saturday, April 16,,1949.

Following a very fine dinner and excellent entertainment
“ranged by Elwood H. Seal, ‘16, President of the District
chapter of the W. and L. Alumni Association, Dr. Gaines
Was introduced by General H. Graham Morison, ’32, an As-
“stant Attorney General, and paid tribute to George Washing-
ton who made a sizable contribution to the school in 1798, and

to General Robert E. Lee, President of the school from the
end of the Civil War until his death.

Dr. Gaines said that the school enters its third century
true to the spirit of freedom in which it was founded.

“As we enter our third century, we can be comforted by
the knowledge that the caliber and spirit of American youth
has never been finer,” he said.

“In the face of those who would take advantage of the
freedom to destroy it, American youth is standing true to
the traditions which founded the nation,” he stated. “None
want to forfeit the ancient liberty of freedom.”

Dr. Gaines told the alumni and guests of the events of the
preceding week, when officials of 114 colleges and 23 societies
gathered on the campus to pay tribute to the school on its
Bicentennial celebration. He reminded the guests that the
W. and L. stamp, issued three weeks ago at the Lexington
post office, was the first ever authorized in honor of an Ameri-
can College.

Among the guests was Chief Justice Vinson, who was re-
cently appointed a member of the Bicentennial Commission
by President Truman. Other members appointed at the time
were Defense Secretary Johnson, Attorney General Tom
Clark, and Postmaster General Jessie Donaldson.

 

 

Mrs. Jean Terry, wife of law student William W. Terry, posts
First Day Cover

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

VIEWS OF SOME OF THE VARIED JOURNALISM ACTIVITIES ON THE CAMPUS:
Top row—(left) Counseling and placement. (right) Reporting assignments. (insert) Broadcast by student radio
news staff. Middle row—(left) Recording an interview. (right) A copy-editing class at work. (insert) An interview
assignment. Bottom row—(left) Instruction in news photography. (right) A glimpse of the printing laboratory.

[ 14 ]

 

——

Journalism Department Receives
Radio Equipment

Q. W. Riegel, director of the journalism foundation, has
yunced that gifts received from alumnus Gilmore Nunn,
eS Lexington, Kentucky, have enabled the Lee Memorial
Setism Foundation at Washington and Lee, in expanding

79

) 9

our : ‘t
: curriculum to include practical classroom training in radio
its .
broadcasting techniques.

Nunn owns and operates several broadcasting stations in
Kentucky and Texas. He was recently elected a district presi-
dent of the National Association of Broadcasters. His gifts
are enabling Washington and Lee students to gain valuable
srofessional experience in radio journalism courses correlated
with studies o! other media. Phrough his gifts the foundation
has purchased modern tape recording equipment, amplifiers,
microphones, and other studio materials.

Washington and Lee students prepare and broadcast over
WREL, Lexington and Rockbridge County’s first radio sta-
tion, a nightly fifteen-minute news summary, as part of their
course assignments, with emphasis on local events. The radio
practice is supplemented by classroom appearances of prac-
ticing radio experts. A recent visiting lecturer was Ted Koop,
Washingtor director of news and public affairs for the Colum-
Lia Broadcasting System.

 

Southern Interscholastic Press Holds
Successful Meeting

Washington and Lee’s twentieth annual Southern Inter-
scholastic Press Association convention brought 500 prepara-
tory and high school journalists to the campus, April 8-9.

O. W. Riegel, director of the Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation, says that almost 90 secondary schools from a
dozen Southern States were represented at the two-day meet-
ings. The Lee Foundation has been sponsoring the SIPA
conventions since the association was formed in 1925.

A panel of 30 experts in various fields of communication
appeared on the program for discussions, lectures, and clinics.
They were counselling the youthful editors of newspapers,
magazines, and yearbooks.

Included on the panel group of visiting speakers were
such nationally prominent journalism experts as Lyle Wil-
son, Washington bureau chief of United Press: literary and
drama critic John Mason Brown; Howard King, typographic
counselor of the Intertype Corporation, Brooklyn, New York.

Two of the speakers were Washington and Lee alumni.
Parke Rouse, Jr., class of ’37, spoke on features. He is Sun-
day editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Virgil Carring-
ton Jones, ‘30, addressed the group on “The Adventure of
\ mting.” Jones is the author of two recent historical narra-
tives—“Ranger Mosby” and “The Hatfields and the McCoys”
—and the manager of Curtis Publishing Company’s Wash-
Mgton office.

In keeping with an SIPA tradition, one of the guests was
* Prominent popular cartoonist. This year Fred Lasswell,
Feator of “Snuffy Smith and Barney Google” was here, giv-
mg an illustrated blackboard lecture.

Meetings and discussions filled Washington Chapel and

ee eee, all available classrooms on the campus, and over-

of the =o spare rooms in the Student Union building, just

journalism 4... proper. Students of the Washington and Lee

tae ( cpartment acted as escorts for the delegates and
nal visitors.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Students in radio news writing under Prof. Charles O. Voigt,
Jr., (second from left) use the latest tape recording tech-
niques in obtaining on-the-spot news for their daily news
broadcasts over Lexington radio station WREL. Here stu-
dents take their recording equipment into the office of W.
and L. Dean James G. Leyburn for an interview with the
school’s academic head.

 

Washington and Lee’s professional honorary journalism
fraternity, Sigma Delta Chi, handled registration duties and
sponsored the annual Friday night dance in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

The handsome souvenir program was designed and printed
by Washington and Lee’s Journalism Laboratory Press.

This year’s convention brought two new features. A
special forum for faculty advisers was introduced at this 1949
conclave. A discussion of “The Cost of Being an Adviser in
Terms of Time and Effort” was led by Richard R. Fletcher,
executive secretary of the Virginia High School league. The
other innovation was a practical radio demonstration, pre-
sented by students in the W. and L. radio laboratory, under
direction of assistant professor C. O. Voigt, Jr.

Recreational features of the convention gave the visitors
a chance to see Washington and Lee’s varsity crew in action
against the crews of Amherst and Yale. It was the first in-
tercollegiate triangular regatta ever held on the Generals’
James River course. After that the delegates toured Natural
Bridge, as guests of the Bridge, then came back to Lexington
to see W. and L.’s baseball team defeat the University of
were based on excellence in writing, editing, editorial atti-
tude, and appearance. Major-General E. W. Opie, editor of
Michigan on Wilson Field.

The final convention banquet was held in the dining hall
of Virginia Military Institute, and there winning publications
were presented trophies in 13 contest groups. The awards
the Staunton Leader, and President Gaines were principal
speakers for the banquet meeting.

Judging by editorials and letters of gratitude pouring into
the Lee Foundation office of O. W. Riegel since the con-
vention, the twentieth meeting was the most successful of the
series, and Washington and Lee’s journalism administrators
are already planning for the next session in 1950.

[15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

EXCERPTS FROM A CLASS LETTER
ee Soe ee oS “You mention in your letter your belief ¢
. ae ee most of us who attended Washington and Lee }
lieve we received something there quite valuah
yet difficult to describe with words. That ing
gible something has, in my observation, take
many forms and has shown up in lots of ways, &
example to me is my belief that Washington gp
Lee men seem to have a very mutual confiden
and trust in each other after they leave the Uj
versity and that feeling is lasting. Our own ig
business has emphasized the belief. There are ¢
Washington and Lee men connected with our ¢
ganization, all of whom are in the positions
great responsibility. Each of us has the author}
to sign checks without a counter-signature. Al}
us participate in the earnings of the business, ¥
operate our automobile parking and service b
ness in Birmingham, Chattanooga, and Mobile,
have an automobile rental business in Mobile.
and [,.. men are directing the business in each @&
and I believe each Washington and Lee man hy
unquestioned confidence in the others. We did a
plan this. I do think, however, that we were broug
together by a natural feeling of confidence in whi
that ‘something’ from W. and L. played a defini
part.”

 

 

   

nena nn nln

Fran Russell, ’42, sports editor of the Smyth County News, Marion, Vir-
ginia, receiving the Frank Cunningham Journalism Trophy (see class

 

note on page 24). NEWSPAPER AWARDS TO ALUMNI
Among the 42 awards for outstanding work
ARTICLE RECOUNTS COPLEY’S CAREER newspapers of Virginia made at the award banquet of the V
Luther L. Copley’s (25-L) career could furnish material ginia Press Association at the final event of the two-day m
for a story of almost superhuman perseverance against handi- winter meeting in Williamsburg, January 21-22, were Ba
caps that would many times have stalled a man of less in- Morris, Jr., ’43, Roanoke W orld-News, for daily feature

testinal fortitude. From the day when he laid down his pick ing, and W. Marshall Johnson, B.A., ‘42, Manassas Journ
and shovel in a coal mine in “Bloody Mingo” County, West for non-daily news, and also for non-daily editorial and ne
Virginia, at the age of 17, unable to read and write, with daily sports.
$50.00 and a Smith and Wesson revolver in a hol-
ster strapped under his left arm, he set out to “buy
an education,” he has made steady progress up the
ladder. His buddy who accompanied him, with
the same equipment, was one of the McCoys, of
the “feudin and fightin” family of his native state.
Many people gave him “a leg up” in his struggle, :
among them Fred M. Vinson, now Chief Justice ce : : , : Be
of the Supreme Court of the United States, who f S
taught him History and Government. (Judge
Vinson’s son is now a student at W. and L.).
Cutting the story to the bone, after graduation
from Louisa College in Kentucky, Copley at-
tended the University of Michigan and Wash-
ington and lee University. He is now a member
of the Legal Department of The Miami Bank and
Trust Company, Miami, Florida. He has received
the highest Masonic honor: “Red Cross of Con-
stantine.”’

(Condensed from Masonic Consistory News i
Letter, Miami, Florida. es

 

Brian Bell, twenty-three year old senior from
Washington, D.C., was elected Washington and
Lee’s Athlete of the Year by the Sports Staff of sce
The Ring-tum Phi. He has starred for the Gen- Washington and Lee’s Varsity Crew, 1949—Al Walter, Dick Hyns¢
erals in football and baseball for the past three Roger Mudd, Hack Heyward, Bobby Mauck, Bob Berryman, Art £
seasons. mons, John Chapman and Ted Bowie (seated).

[ 16 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1894

Charles H. Freeman lives
‘, Bon Air, Virginia, known
1 4

Let us remind you again that the material from

1904

J. B. Akers has been with
the Southern Railway since

“she mos ‘lightful sub- . . : as
as “the most de ee Te ig which these notes was compiled consists of let- September, 1904, of which
urb ot Richmond. e 1s a Atlee Ak ! a et he is now Chief Engineer.
now retired and says he is ters receive y the class agents during the last His work has to do with
“490 strong to work,” so spring and summer and from questionnaires re- maintenance of way and

spends his time hoeing and
raking and grass cutting and
this and that all over his

two acre place.

1896

 

turned by alumni during that period. If notes
are not up-to-date, we would appreciate any
further information you can let us have.

structures, and all construc-
tion that involves the physi-
cal plant of the Railway.

Lt. Col. John McClure
retired in June, 1948, after

 

 

Dr. Lochlin M. Winn re-
tired February 1, 1949, as medical director of the North Bir-
mingham plant of the United States Pipe and Foundry Com-
pany, after 30 years service. After graduation here Dr. W inn
received his medical education at Tulane and the University
of Pennsylvania. Address: 1015 South 22nd Street, Birming-
ham, Alabama.

1898

R. W. Mayo lives at 1820 Moser Avenue, Dallas, Texas.
He is proud of his family of four children, two girls and two
hovs. all of whom are “a credit to the flag of our nation and
to the colors of Washington and Lee.”

1899
Scott M. Loftin is a member of the law firm of Loftin and
Wahl, with offices at 414-425 Graham Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.
1902

Dr. W. T. Ellis, 1115 Lindley Avenue, Philadelphia 41,
Pennsylvania, is participating in two birthday celebrations
this year, the Bicentennial of Washington and Lee and the
Tricentennial of The University of Pennsylvania. He hopes
to be on hand for the Alumni Reunion in June.

Volney M. Brown is a member of the law firm of Kemp,
Smith, Brown, Groggin and White, State National Bank
Building, 105 South Oregon Street, El Paso, Texas.

1903

Rev. J. M. B. Gill retired from the Episco-
pal ministry in 1946, but is still connected
with the Church’s work in the Missionary Dis-
trict of Eastern Oregon at Bend, Oregon. He
spends his winters in his home town, Peters-
burg, Virginia, and his summers in Oregon.

R. A. Ruff is still busily engaged in the coal
mining business in Elkhorn, West Virginia.
He plans to retire, “or just plain quit,” some
time this summer.

Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, now re- AM,
d from the Presbyterian ministry after 35
years service, is living in Greensboro, North
Carolina. Address: 829 Ardsley Road, Char-
lotte 7, North Carolina.

tire

   

  

i
eit
ah
y

 

43 years service as head of
the Chemistry Department of the New Mexico Military In-
stitute, Roswell, New Mexico.

Eldridge W. Poindexter began the practice of law in Roan-
oke, Virginia, immediately after successfully passing the Vir-
ginia State Bar Examination in 1904. He is in partnership with
his brother, J. W. Poindexter, ’16, under the firm name of
Poindexter and Poindexter, with offices in the Shenandoah
Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

Dr. Matthew T. McClure, after fourteen years of adminis-
trative work as Dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences at the University of Illinois, retired from that position
and is now devoting his full time to the teaching of Philoso-
phy, as head of that department. Address: University of Illi-
nois, Urbana, Illinois.

Judge Julian F. Bouchelle has recently completed one-half
of the second term of eight years as Judge of the Thirteenth
Judicial District of West Virginia. Home address: 2017 Kana-
wha Avenue, S.E., Charleston, West Virginia.

1906

Ira T. Ritenour is still raising wheat “to help feed the
hungry millions” on his 960 acre farm, where he has been for
the past thirty-four years. He regrets that he will be unable
to attend the Bicentennial Alumni Reunion because his two
daughters will graduate in June, one from the local high
school, and the other from Montana State
University. Address: Pendroy, Montana.

Brent E. Clark is a retired engineer and
owns and operates The James Hotel, 219 N.W.,
4th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. He
sends his regards to “the ‘06 boys” and re-
grets that he will be unable to attend the
Alumni Reunion in June.

Claude P. Light writes his Class Agent
that he and his wife are planning to attend the
Bicentennial Reunion in June. He is practic-
ing law in Parkersburg, West Virginia.

=a Dr. W. Raymond Cooper is Dean of Men
ul wf) at Southwestern, Memphis, Tennessee.

ner! John W. Eggleston is a Justice of the Su-
Wiiwen,. pPreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, with of-
fices at 301 City Hall Building, Norfolk 10, Va.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Charles A. Dunlap has retired after forty years as an En-
gineer on the A. F.& S. F. R. R., and is living at 6022 Monte
Vista, Los Angeles 42, California.

Judge Richard B. Spindle was in Lexington for the Law
School Centennial celebration, May 10-11, and, therefore,
feels that he will not be able to attend the Bicentennial Alum-
ni Reunion in June. He is Judge of the Corporation Court,
Norfolk, Virginia.

1907

E. Clyde Hoge has recently changed the name of his firm
from Lathrop-Hoge Construction Company to Hoge-Warren-
Zimmerman Company. This is a change in name only except
that with new mechanical equipment developed by his son,
John, they are enabled to cope with the higher material and
labor costs and carry on with a good volume of building con-
struction. Address: 1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio.

Dr. W. B. Newell is a physician and surgeon, with offices
at 501 Broadway Tower, Enid, Oklahoma.

of Home
Plant City,

Rev. Asa R. Larrick is Executive Secretary
Missions, St. John’s Presbytery, Synod of Florida,
Florida.

1908

Fred Bartenstein, Sr., is with the Blackwell Engineering
Company of Warrenton, Virginia. He and his wife have raised
four children, three boys and one girl; three of whom are mar-
ried, and he says they are enjoying the grandchildren, who
are more fun and much less responsibility.

Edwin H. McGill is still working with the New Mexico
State Highway Department, where he has been for the past
20 years. Address: 904 North Girard, Albuquerque,, New
Mexico.

Ben T. Smith (B. T. Smith and Company, Accountants
and Auditors), Box 222, Lynchburg, Virginia, writes that he
hopes the “Will-of-the Wisp,” Rags Phillips, will stick to his
word and appear this year in Lexington. He has used up all
his alibis long ago.

H. R. Mahler is Superintendent of Schools, Board of Ed-
ucation, Thomasville, Georgia. On account of his school
schedule he will be unable to attend the Alumni Reunion in
June.

J. C. Carpenter, Jr., is President of the First National
Bank of Clifton Forge, Virginia. He and Mrs. Carpenter are
planning a trip to California to visit their daughter who lives
there, but expect to be in Lexington in time for the Bicen-
tennial Alumni Reunion in June.

R. Lee Page is in the bonding and insurance business at
249-251 Monticello Arcade Building, Norfolk, Virginia. He
Was a visitor to the campus in the spring.

Donald P. Bowyer is District Agent, The Spencer Tur-
bine Company of SPREE, Connecticut. Address: 2804 Du-
pont Circle, Richmond 22, Virginia.

1909

J. W. (Bill) Claudy is still Superintendent of Rockview
State Penitentiary, R. F. D. No. 3, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.

Elliott Vawter is Secretary of Barrows and Company, Inc.,
miners and shippers steam, gas, by-products and domestic

[ 18 ]

     

John Fo

coal, Huntington, West Virginia. His nephew,
graduates from the Law School in June.

Charles S. Glasgow, attorney-at-law, Lexington, y
ginia, is carrying on the family Washington and Lee tr
tion, with two sons now in school here, Charles S., Jr., in ¢
Law School, and Francis T., II, a senior in the Acadep
School.

    
 
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
    
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   

O. R. Price, whose home is in Harrisonburg, Virgin
spends his winters in Florida at 3952 Douglas Road, Miz
33, Florida. His home address is 279 Newman Avenue, Ha
risonburg, Virginia.

C. Irving Carey is a member of the law firm of Carey ;
Harrison, Florida National Bank Building, St. Petersb
Florida. |

Guyte P. McCord is Clerk of the Supreme Court of Fle
ida, Tallahassee, Florida.

L. J. Boxley was a recent visitor to the campus and }
many friends will be glad to know that he will be prese
for the Alumni Reunion in June.

1910

Charles I. Dwiggins lives at Lake Gibson, Lakeland, Fle
ida. He was in the banking business for several years
then went into citrus growing, to which he has recently add
the raising of cattle. from which he derives considerable e
joyment. 4

Philip W. Murray is a member of the law firm of Le
Murray and Ford, First National Bank Building, Newpe
News, Virginia. He expects to be here for the Reunion
June.

1912

Wayne Ely is Division Counsel for the Gulf, Mobile a
Ohio Railroad Company in Eastern Missouri and Southe
Illinois, and Local Attorney for the Cotton Belt and Waba:s
Railroads. His two sons, Dick and Bob, are practicing la
with him and his youngest daughter, Miriam, is a freshman
DePaw University, winning distinguished honors.

Lawrence E. Goldman is specializing in Government i
surance litigation, with offices in the Rialto Building, Kat
sas City, Missouri. He represents the claimants and not
Government, and spent much of his time away from hom
until recently when he has been curtailing his activity som
what.

Russell B. Wine is still in the general practice of law
San Antonio, Texas. He spent eight years in the U. S. Atte
ney’s office and four years in the State District Attorney
office. He also served as U.S. Commissioner and as Speci
Probate Judge. Address: 807 National Bank of Comme
Building, San Antonio, Texas.

A. G. Lively is a member of the law firm of Burns an
Lively, 1-2-3 Burns Building, Lebanon, Virginia. He expec
to be in Lexington for the Bicentennial Reunion.

John F. Chatfield is practicing law at 1115 Main Stree
Bridgeport, Connecticut. He will be here for the Reunion.

Francis J. Heazel is a member of the law firm of Heaz
and Redmond, Asheville, North Carolina. He has three ch
dren, two daughters who are married and a son who grad
ated at the North Carolina Law School and expects to 0
tain his Master’s degree at the Wharton School of Busine

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

He had a four-year stretch in the army, with about

‘1 June. ;
in J is of the time in China.

six mont!

Allen McDowell, his wife and young son, were visitors to
pus in May. He is now in the real estate brokerage

the cam i
Kent, Connecticut.

business 10

Dr. William McElwee Miller, of the American Presby-
terian Mission, Teheran, Iran, is now in this country and
was a recent visitor in Lexington where his mother and uncle,
William M. McElwee, ’79, have their home.

Paul A. Rockwell, who was to have served this year as
Class Agent for the Academic Class of 1912, was unexpectedly
called to Paris, France, on business, therefore the 1912-A
class letters are being handled through the Alumni Office.
However, Paul will be back to “Stateside” in time to attend
the Bicentennial Alumni Reunion in June.

1913

Dr. William Taylor Thom, Jr., Blair Professor of Geology
at Princeton University, served as chairman of a committee
to draft a statement of policy with respect to educational
standards in the geological sciences for the recently organized
American Geological Institute. The new Institute, formed
to direct the talents of the geologic profession into more ef-
fective channels of national service, is a unit within the Na-
tional Research Council, affiliated with its division of geology
and geography. Dr. Thom’s committee’s definite standards
for geological education were adopted by the organizational
group.

Howard L. Robinson is a member of the law firm of
Robinson and Stump, Union National Bank Building, Clarks-
burg, West Virginia. He was United States Attorney for the
Northern District of West Virginia from 1934 to 1938. He has
a farm eight miles from Clarksburg on which he was born and
reared, and enjoys his time there free from other people’s
troubles, noise of the city and telephone calls. He expects to
be present for the Reunion in June.

Howard P. Macfarlane is a member of the law firm of
Macfarlane, Ferguson, Allison and Kelly, First National Bank
Building, Tampa 1, Florida. His son Hugh §&., received his
A.B. degree here in 1940, returning after the war and gradu-
ating from the Law School in 1946, is now with the firm.
During the past year Mr. Macfarlane, Sr., acquired two new
granddaughters, bringing the total of grandchildren to four.

Will E. Ward is in partnership with his son under the
firm name of Ward and Ward, Attorneys-at-Law in Stark-
ville, Mississippi.

Dr. George West Diehl of Corpus Christi, Texas, has
accepted a call to become pastor of Oxford Presbyterian
Church in Rockbridge County, Virginia, and will take over
the charge in June.

1914

_Dave Bone is with the Public Administrator’s Office, San
Diego County, which is combined with the Coroner’s office.
Between real property matters and Coroner’s inquests, he has
little rest. He says, however, “We follow the Mexican ideas
here on the border and never take life seriously. There is al-
Ways time for hunting, camping and fishing.”

_ Henry P. Carrington is with Eastern Gas and Fuel Asso-
“lates, Coal Division, Maitland, West Virginia.

Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr., is president of Wheeling Tile
Company, Wheeling, West Virginia. He was a visitor to the
campus early in May, and expects to be on hand for the
Alumni Reunion. He has three sons, Ott, Philip and David,
and hopes to enter the oldest, Ott, at W. and L. in 1950.

Leon O’Quin is a member of the law firm of Blanchard,
Goldstein, Walker and O’Quin, with offices in the First Na-
tional Bank Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Dr. William Mosely Brown has recently been added to the
faculty of Elon College, Elon, North Carolina, as head of the
department of History and Sociology.

L. Berkeley Cox, A.B. °14, LL.B. ’20, is now General
Counsel of the Aetna Life Insurance Company, and its af-
filiated companies, Aetna Casualty and Surety Company, The
Automobile Insurance Company and the Standard Fire In-
surance Company. His Assistant General Counsel at the home

office is W. Braxton Dew, LL.B. ’21.

1915

Dr. L. Nelson Bell is practicing general surgery in Ashe-
ville, North Carolina. He was a medical missionary in China
from 1916 to 1941. He is now on the staff of six Asheville
hospitals.

Woodson P. Houghton is still practicing law with the
firm of Ellis, Houghton and Ellis, Southern Building, Wash-
ington 5, D.C., which unfortunately requires so much of
his time that he will be unable to attend the Reunion, June
16 to 18.

Dr. James E. Bear is head of the Biblical Department,
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. He has a
married daughter living in Helena, Arkansas, a second daugh-
ter graduating from Agnes Scott College in June, and the
two younger children, Jimmy (12) and Jean (9) are in gram-
mar school.

J. Carl Fisher writes that the only change in his family
status is that his second daughter, Margaret, was married on
April 23 to Dr. Henry Chesley Decker of Richmond. Carl is
still with Consolidated Electric Light and Power Company,
Lexington Building, Baltimore 1, Maryland.

1916

George D. Shore, Jr., is a member of the law firm of Mc-
Lead and Shore, Sumter, South Carolina. He expects to be
back for the Bicentennial Reunion.

David A. Falk is president of O. Falk’s department store,
Tampa, Florida.

Bruce F. Woodruff is completing the organization of a
new law firm since he lost his former partner in February
last. His offices are in the Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.
His son, Bruce, Jr., is now in his third year at Washington
and Lee.

Henderson Estes writes his class agent that he has noth-
ing of interest to add, except that he is still practicing law
and “getting along all right, and hoping that we will not
have a World War III.” He and his wife plan to be at the
Bicentennial Reunion. Address: 703-704 First National Bank
Building, Middletown 5, Ohio.

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1917

Judge Joel W. Flood served as Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney for Appomattox County from 1919 until elected to Con-
gress in 1932; was Special Assistant to the Attorney General
of Virginia for four years, and was elevated to the Bench
in January, 1940. Since that time he has been Judge of the
Fifth Judicial Circuit of Virginia. He was married to Doro-
thy Foster Evans in 1933, and they have one son, Henry De-
LaWarr Flood, IV, who is now five years old.

Dr. R. Glenn Craig, Medico-Dental Building, 490 Post
Street, San Francisco, California, has only been back to the
campus once since graduation, but expects to attend the
Alumni Reunion in June.

Judge Paul D. Barnes, after serving for twenty years on
the trial bench in Miami, Florida, is now Judge of the Su-
preme Court of Florida, Tallahassee, Florida. His son, Paul,
Jr., graduated from Washington and Lee in 1940 and is now
Assistant Secretary of the Security Trust Company in Miami.

Harry V. Campbell is a member of the law firm of Dayton,
Campbell and Love, Security Building, Charleston 1, West
Virginia. He will be in Lexington for the Bicentennial Re-
union.

E. P. Barrow is still actively engaged in the practice of
law in Lawrenceville, Virginia, but devotes much of his time
to the work of the Highway Department of Virginia, as a
member of the Highway Commission.

Jackson R. Collins is practicing law, with offices at 90

Broad Street, New York 4, New York.

Dr. W. H. Brandon received his medical degree from
Northwestern after service in World War I, started practice
in Memphis, Tennessee, being on the teaching staff of the
University of Tennessee for nine years. He went to Clarks-
dale, Mississippi, and established the Brandon Clinic. During
the years following his college work he received the Honor-
ary Degree of F.A.C.S. in the American College of Surgeons
and also a fellowship in Southeastern Surgical Congress. He
has three children, a daughter Mary Elizabeth, who will be
married in June, and two sons William Henry and George
Wayne. William Henry expects to enter Washington and
Lee in 1950.

Inman Payne Crutchfield is City Solicitor, Jacksonville,
Florida. Address: 603 Consolidated Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1918

Allein Beall, Jr., is in the merchandising brokerage busi-
ness in Helena, Arkansas.

Raymond Melville Bear is an aeronautical engineer con-
nected with the Power Plant Division of Aeronautics, Navy
Department, Washington 25, D.C., and lives at 1401 Fairmont
Street, N. W., Washington 9, D. C.

Lyon W. Brandon lives in Como, Mississippi, and expects
to be on hand for the Reunion. He says: “It will be interesting
to get together and exchange lies about how important we
have become.”

Chapman Revercomb, since his retirement as U. S. Sena-
tor from West Virginia last fall, has more time to devote to
his law practice with the firm of Hodges, Revercomb and
Price, Kanawha Valley Building, Charleston, West Virginia.
Senator Revercomb introduced the resolution in the United

[ 20 |

   
    
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

States Senate which was passed by Congress, giving natic
recognition of the Bicentennial of Washington and Lee
expects to be in Lexington for the Reunion in June,

James C. Amber is Managing Director in the New
Office of Ginn and Company, Educational Publishers,
Fifth Avenue, New York. His home is in Glen Ridge,
Jersey. He has the same wife and the same two childre;
daughter, Jacqueline who is 14, and a son, Jimmy, Jr,,
is 10.

Murray C. Shoun is with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fer
and Beane, brokers, 23 North Pryor Street, Atlanta, Geo
He hopes to be able to attend the reunion in June.

John L. McChord is the new president of the Cleve
Ohio, Bar Association. Address: 1717 Union Comme
Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

1919

 

Dr. Harmon Lowman is president of Sam Houston @
lege, Huntsville, Texas. The Josey School of Vocational }
ucation is a part of Sam Houston College and is the {j
and only college in Texas that can accept a student who
otherwise scholastically disqualified.

1921

H. Grey Funkhouser is professor of mathematics at Ph
lips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire. He ma
Louise Thompson of Lexington and they have two child
John Gray and Ann Louise. Address: Cilly Hall, Exet
New Hampshire.

Frank M. Pollock is Manager of Tidewater Apartm
Company, with offices at 322 Helena Building, Norfolk
Virginia.

Lewis S. Musgrove and his wife attended their daughte
Senior Piano Recital at Sweet Briar College in April and
planning another trip there for her graduation in June. Th
expect to come on to Lexington for the Bicentennial R

union. Address: United States Guarantee Company, 90 Jol
Street, New York 7, New York.

1922

James A. Cranford is Vice-President of the Atlantic
tional Bank of Jacksonville, Florida. His son, James A., J
took his pre-med course at Washington and Lee and is no
a sophomore in the Medical School at Duke University, a
a daughter, Mary Pickett, is attending Miss Harris’ school
Miami.

L. Walters Milbourne is Manager of station WCAO, “TI
Voice of Baltimore,” The Monumental Radio Company, 11¢
North Charles Street, Baltimore 1, Maryland.

Samuel Logan Sanderson has recently opened “The
Store,” Hazelwood, Route 1, Waynesville, North Carolit
selling toys, books, novelties and sporting goods.

Abe Lubliner is still practicing law in Bluefield, West Vil
ginia, and has been a member of the Legislature since 19
“off and on,” serving five terms and extra sessions. He hé
some outside activities and continues the run of the mine é
tivities. He is married and has one son, Joel, age 4.

Dr. William B. Hesseltine, professor of history at the Un
versity of Wisconsin, was visiting lecturer at Sewanee

 

——

. Dr. Hesseltine has been an outstanding contribu-
. field of historical studies in general and to the

the ,
tor to period in particular.

civil War
1923

McCarthy is a member of the law firm of Loftin, An-
Scott, McCarthy and Preston, Ingraham Building,
Florida. He regrets that he will be unable to at-
1ion in June.

Al
derson, F
Miami 6,
tend the Reut!
olbrook, Assistant Secretary, Standard Sure-

d Casualty Company and the Century Company, of the
a Insurance Group, 670 Main Street, Hartford, Connec-
_* mn in Lexington May 11 and 12, attending the celebra-
” she Washington and Lee Law School Centennial. His
a will enter the freshman class here this fall.

Judge J. G. Ragsdale, Municipal Judge, El Dorado, Ar-
kansas, writes that the only change in his usual routine ex-
istence 1S the birth of a granddaughter on August 22, 1948,
daughter of his eldest son, John.

J. Bruce Gordon, after being in all phases of the lumber

business for a number of years, established his own business
in 1943 in Murphy, North Carolina.

George T. 1

Weldon T. Kilmon is Assistant Secretary of the Balti-
more Asphalt Block and Tile Company, general contractors,
1320 North Monroe Street, Baltimore 17, Maryland. He re-
grets that he will be unable to attend the Reunion since June
is a busy month in the contracting business.

David H. Matson, formerly General Manager of Electrical
Companies in Argentina, is now with Compania Impulsora de
Empresas Electricas, $.A., Calle Bolivar 21, Mexico, D. F.
He will be in Lexington for the reunion.

1924

T. Erwin Schneider, President of Tesco Chemicals, Inc.,
was elected a director of the Bank of Georgia, Atlanta,
Georgia, at the annual stockholders meeting in January.
Joseph E. Birnie, ’27, is president of the bank.

Carl E. L. Gill, industrial relations director of Wanskuck
Company and Oakland Worsted Company, Providence,
Khode Island, served as chairman of the panel on supervisory
training at the annual meeting of the National Association of
Wool Manufacturers in New York on April 13, 1949.

Randolph G. Whittle is City Attorney of Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. His oldest son, Randolph G., Jr., is-a freshman at
Washington and Lee this year. Mr. and Mrs. Whittle are

planning to be in Lexington for the Bicentennial Alumni Re-
union.

Stuart A. MacCorkle is Professor of Government and Di-
rector of the Bureau of Municipal Research at the University
of Texas, Austin, Texas. He was recently appointed Chairman

of the State Tax Commission, and elected to the Austin City
Council.

_ Baynard L. Malone’s son, Kirby, is a sophomore at Wash-
gton and [ee this year, and he has two other children now
im the University of Florida. He is practicing law in St.
Petersburg, Florida, with offices in the Florida National
Bank Building.

Joseph Roland Ellis is Assistant Advertising Manager of

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Chatlin’s Department Store, Norristown, Pennsylvania. On
Sunday and holidays he writes short stories and plays. His
first play “Call Me Dearie,” a comedy in three acts, recent-
ly published by Christopher Publishing Company in Boston,
written for amateur theatrical groups, is sparkling and hu-
morous. Address: 428 Standbridge Street, Norristown, Penn-
sylvania.

1925

Ollinger Crenshaw, professor of History at Washington
and Lee, has about completed his work on a history of Wash-
ington and Lee from its origin to modern times, to be pub-
lished in connection with the Bicentennial program, and
hopes to have it off the press during this year.

Charles S. Heilig is still operating the Taylor Mattress
Company at Salisbury, North Carolina. He now has four sons.

Clyde Allen has been in the laundry business since leav-
ing school. His firm is known as Model Laundry, Inc., 2503
East Marshall Street, Richmond 23, Virginia.

1926

J. R. Thames is still in the lumber business under the firm
name of J. R. Thames and Company, Yellow Pine Lumber,
Birmingham, Alabama. He says: “Since the highways are so
crowded, I am too old to fight them any longer, so am get-
ting a big kick out of flying my new Cessba-170, on business
as well as pleasure trips.”” He hopes to “drop in” for the Bi-
centennial Alumni Reunion.

Carl Jorgan Wallin is Supervising Engineer for the Vir-
ginia Hot Springs Company, Inc., Hot Springs, Virginia.

Dr. Charles H. Patterson, after approximately 5 years in
the Navy, has returned to his former office in the Allied Arts
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia, and is practicing Dermatology.
He was married last June to Marguerita I. Young, of Auck-
land, New Zealand.

1927

J. DeWesse Carter of Denton, Maryland, was named to a
judgeship in the Second Judicial Circuit of the State on April
2, 1949. He has practiced law in his home town since grad-
uation from the Law School here, with the exception of time
spent in Army service during World War II, when he was in
the Judge Advocate General’s Department, serving on the
staff of General McArthur in the Pacific theatre. Shortly af-
ter his admission to the Bar in 1927, he was named a United
States Commissioner for the nine Eastern Shore Counties, a
post he held until 1933, when he resigned.

C. L. Stainback, Jr., is Director of Athletics at Browning
School, 333 East 43rd Street, New York, New York.

1928

J. W. Alderson, Jr., is President of Fussell-Graham-Al-
derson Company, department store, Forest City, Arkansas.
He has been with this organization since finishing school.

R. W. (Buck) Jordan is Vice-President and Trust Officer
for Lawyer Title Insurance Company, Richmond, Virginia.
His family consists of three girls and one boy, ranging in
age from 13 years down to 6 months.

Oldham Clarke is a member of the law firm of Allen, Mc-
Elwain, Dinning, Clarke and Ballantine, Kentucky Home

[21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky. His son, Ernest Hoge,
is a freshman at Washington and Lee this year. He hopes to
be able to attend the Reunion.

T. B. Bryant, Jr., is practicing law in Orangeburg, South
Carolina, and began his second four-year term as State Sen-
ator from his county this year. He still has the same wife
and two boys, one eleven and the other seven.

William C. Norman has been appointed Assistant General
Manager of the Crosset Arkansas Companies, Crosset Lum-
ber Company, manufacturers of forest products, Crosset,
Arkansas, in addition to his office as Treasurer. He and his
family spent a few days in Lexington last June.

Warren Pierpont is still on the faculty of the Department
of Economics and Commerce at the University of North
Carolina.

Wilton M. (Red) Garrison has been in the newspaper busi-
ness ever since leaving school. He is now with the Charlotte
Observer, Charlotte, North Carolina. He expects to be in
Lexington for the Alumni Reunion.

Charles E. Branham, since July 1, 1948, has been with the
Branham Company, an organization founded by his brother,
the late John M. Branham, which functions as representatives
in the advertising field for newspapers and radio stations.
Residence address: 3619 Tuxedo Road, N.W., Atlanta,
Georgia.

1929

Earnest E. Sanders, member of the law firm of Simon,
Wynn, Sanders and Jones, Fort Worth National Bank Build-
ing, Fort Worth, Texas, will be unable to attend the Alumni
Reunion in June, as he will be in San Francisco at that time
attending the International Convention of the Optimist Club
as president of the local organization.

Walter H. Wilcox is Sales Manager and a Director of S$.
D. Warren Company, paper manufacturers, Box No. 4, Bos-
ton, Massachusetts.

William W. Pace gave up his bachelor status on Novem-
ber 6, 1948, when he was married to Sue Eleanor Roper of
Portsmouth, Virginia. Address: 411 Webster Avenue, Ports-
mouth, Virginia.

Dr. L. C. Spengler served during the war as Chief of Sur-
gery in a 300-bed hospital in Londonderry, Northern Ireland,
for 214 years. From August, 1944, until February, 1946, he
was on duty at the U. S. Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia, and came out with the rank of Commander. Since that
time he has been in the practice of urology and proctology
at 818 South Jefferson Street, Roanoke 16, Virginia. He is on
the visiting staff of the Jefferson Hospital and Chief of
Urology at the Roanoke Hospital.

1930

Herbert Jahncke is Vice-President of the Jahncke Service
Company in New Orleans, Louisiana. He is married and has
three sons, ages seven, nine and thirteen.

Gerald E. Grashorn is practicing law with the firm of Win-
ston, Strawn, Shaw and Black, First National Bank Building,
Chicago 3, Illinois.

Robert W. Mosley is assistant professor of history and so-
ciology at Arkansas State Teachers College, Conway, Arkan-
sas.

[ 22 |

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Edward S. Graves is still practicing law in Lynch}
Virginia, with offices in the Krise Building. He was a yjg
lecturer in the Washington and Lee Law School during
fall semester. 7

George F. Ashworth, discharged from the service .
Colonel of Infantry, decided he couldn’t take a desk
again, and purchased the Belfort Farm, R.F.D. No. 1, Or:
Virginia, which he is operating himself, raising purebred
istered Hereford cattle. He is married and has two sons.

1931

Ralph P. Grant is general manager of Ivey’s, Ho
Skyland Fashions, Asheville, North Carolina.

Chandler W. Gordon was elected president of the Re
Club of Asheville, North Carolina, on April 28, 1949, #
president of the Gordon Lumber Company and represe
the Asheville Rotarians at a Rotary International conven
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1947. .

Lt. Col. Ben M. Ayars will complete a course at Comm
and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
July 1. He writes his Class Agent that it has been tough
ing back to school after 16 years since he received his
degree after graduation here.

1932

J. Bernard Spector is practicing law at 37 Northeast F
Avenue, Miami 32, Florida.

Samuel Barasch is still in the real estate business at
North Park Avenue, Rockville Center, New York. He
youngster 7 years of age who will eventually attend W;
ington and Lee.

Jack Marks is 2 member of the law firm of Marks
Marks at 521 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, New York. He
be unable to be present at the Reunion in June since he ¢
his wife expect to be in Auckland, New Zealand, at that tit
visiting his wife’s parents, who live at Perth, Western
tralia, where they will spend the summer (Australian wint
months.

Collas G. Harris, after spending five and a half yea
the Air Forces as an Intelligence Officer, two years of wh
were spent in Japan, was discharged from the Army in I
and returned to the National Archives as Director of Admit
trative Services.

Jim Sparks is a member of the law firm of Thomps
Thompson and Sparks, Bernhardt Building, Monroe, Lou
ana.

Stuart L. Crenshaw took the oath as Collector of Inter
Revenue, District of Virginia, on March 1, 1949, after se
as Acting Collector from August 18, 1947. He now has fot
teen years Federal service to his credit. He has a wif
daughter 13, and a son 10. Address: Treasury Departme
Internal Revenue Service, Parcel Post Building, Richmol
Virginia.

1933

Dr. John Womeldorf is Pastor of the Princeton Pres
terian Church, Princeton, West Virginia. In addition to
duties as pastor of the past two years, he has completed gra¢
ate work at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
ginia, and received his degree on May 24.

 

—

M. Painter has been Assistant Principal and Athletic Di-
. of the Bedford, Virginia, High School for the past
= rs, but has accepted a position as Health and Physi-
teacher of Washington High School, Alex-
where he will go next session.

rect
ffteen year
cal Education
andria. Virginia,

c. W. Kaufman is still holding down the job at General
'< as Director of Research and Development; still has the
fe and one daughter, and the only change in the fam-
p is that they now have two dogs instead of one. Ad-
Building, 250 Park Avenue, New York 17,

Foods '
same W!
ily set-U
dress: Postom
New York.
Edwin Wilson Chittum, recently principal of Northview
High School, was elevated to the superintendency of the
Norfolk County Schools on April 13, 1949. A native of Fair-
field, Rockbridge County, Virginia, after graduation from
Washington and Lee in 1933, he taught in neighboring county
schools, later going to Norfolk. He is a member of the State
Advisory Committee for Secondary Schools and Colleges,
the Committee of Superintendents and Principals of the State
Department of i.ducation, and of the department's Advisory
Committee on Social Studies. In the summer of 1945, he di-
rected a workshop of Virginia teachers to develop new teach-

ing material.

Donald K. Crawford is a member of the law firm of Arn-
eld, Crawford and Hyer, Elkins, West Virginia.

J. Hoge (Toby) Tyler is still practicing law as a member
of the firm of Mann & Tyler, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, but has recently spent two months serving as foreman
of a Special Grand Jury which left little time for anything
else. He has a wife and two daughters, ages 10 and 7.

Homer G. Ray, Jr., is president of the Georgia Peanut
Company, Moultrie, Georgia. He reports the birth of a baby
son, Homer Gene, III, on April 6, 1949, and thinks he will
make a good half-back on the W. and L. football team of
about 1908.

1934

Thomas D. Anderson, Vice-President and Trust Officer of
the Union National Bank of Houston, Texas, and his wife are
planning to attend the Alumni Reunion in June.

Thornton G. Berry, Jr., is practicing law in Welch, West
Virginia. He hopes to be able to make the Alumni Reunion,
June 16-18.

Richard Sale and his wife, Anita Loos, are co-authors of
two college pictures at 20th Century Fox, “Mother Is a
Freshman” and “Mr. Belvedere Goes to College,” which bid
fair to make movie history, college division. In both pictures
the colleges look like colleges and the students look like stu-
dents. In a revolutionary move, 20th is casting 17 and 18-year-
olds as college freshmen, “We got tired,” Miss Loos said, “of
seeing Bing Crosby, Richard Arlen and Jack Oakie taking col-
lege entrance exams.”

1935

Ed Bond says he is still in the “huckster business” with
ung and Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Avenue, New York
» New York. He is an Account Executive.

ene H. Barrick of S. W. Barrick and Sons, Inc., Woods-
a. aryland, writes that his firm is celebrating its 75th an-
sary this year of which he is justly proud, as he is a
ondson of the founder. He is now the father of two daugh-
Sand one son aged 11, 6, and 3 respectively.

Yo
7

The cAlumni Macazine, Washington and Lee University

James S. Woods is Traffic Manager of Penn Glass Sand
Corporation, and Vice-President of two Radio companies,
Lewiston Broadcasting Company, of Lewiston, Pennsylvania,
and Altoona Broadcasting Company, Altoona, Pennsylvania,
operating WJSW and WJSW-FM. His home is in Lewiston
and they have three boys, James, III, 9, Michael, 4, and
Frank, 2.

1936

John S. Beagle, 610 Genesee Bank Building, Flint, Michi-
gan, has been named by the City Commission to the Hurley
Hospital Board of Managers. He is a former assistant prose-
cutor and a former assistant attorney general, a member of
the law firm of Beagle, Stewart and Beagle.

1937

Howell W. Roberts, Jr., last summer joined the newly or-
ganized Airport Planning Bureau, with the Port of New York
Authority. They are involved in economic planning and de-
velopment of the four major regional New York airports—
La Guardia, Idlewild, Newark, and Interboro. He says, “Put-
ting these fields on a paying basis is going to be more than
an overnight job. The work is tough sledding but enjoyable.”
Home address: 102 Fourth Street, Garden City, New York.

1938

Thomas Hal Clark and Paul H. Anderson have announced
the formation of a partnership for the practice of law under
the firm name of Clarke and Anderson, with offices at Suite
1506, 22 Marietta Street Building, Atlanta, Georgia. Walter
McElreath, ’94, will be associated with the firm as counselor.

Gilbert S. Meem is executive vice-president of Meem-
Haskins Coal Corporation, Bluefield, West Virginia. He was
married December 11, 1948, to Ruth Anne Brammer, whom
he met at a golf tournament at White Sulphur Springs and
married shortly thereafter.

William H. Daniel is in hotel and property management
Real Estate, with offices in the Daniel Building, Third at Bos-
ton, Tulsa 3, Oklahoma.

Robert M. Basile is now on the home stretch toward re-
ceiving his Ph.D., with the last long pull—the dissertation—
to go. Address: 863 Gilbert Street, Columbus 6, Ohio.

George K. Meier, Jr., became a legal assistant to the Essex
County Prosecutor, Montclair, New Jersey, on March 28,
1949. Business address: 484 Bloomfield Avenue, Montclair,
New Jersey.

Compton Broders is still at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
as are nine other Washington and Lee men, who have formed
an alumni group. He and his wife, Peg, have a little son,
A. C., III, now one year old.

Major Herbert C. Clendenning, after leaving Washington
and Lee, entered West Point and graduated there in June,
1941, with the B.S. degree in engineering. During the war
he was in India for eight months working on the Ledo Road.
Returning to West Point, he taught electrical engineering
for three years, and now is working for a master’s degree in
civil engineering at Cal Tech, expecting to graduate in June.
His family consists of one wife, two sons, Bill 6%, and Paul
3, and one daughter “Candy,” 2 months. Home address: 728
Los Robles, Pasadena 5, California.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1939

Frederick Bartenstein, Jr., has been appointed an assistant
secretary of Merck & Company, Inc., manufacturing chem-
ists. He joined Merck as a member of the legal department
in 1942 and was appointed general attorney and head of the
department last year. Residence address: 1974 St. George
Avenue, Apartment No. 2, Rahway, New Jersey.

Robert W. Spessard has announced the opening of his law
office at 701 Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

William A. Jenks, Assistant Professor of History at Wash-
ington and Lee, recently completed work on his Ph.D. de-
gree in history at Columbia University, New York.

L. C. Lewis and his wife, who was Jonedith Henry, were
recent visitors to the campus. He is with the George B. Job-
son Company, Hardwoods, of Baltimore, Maryland. Home
address: 1426 Greystone Terrace, Winchester, Virginia.

Dabney Watts was recently appointed Commonwealth’s
Attorney for Winchester, Virginia.

David K. McNish, Jr., has been named manager of the
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company’s office in
Danville, Virginia.

Edwin J. Foltz is now in charge of the office of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation in Little Rock, Arkansas. Ad-
dress: 445 Federal Building, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Dr. G. Watson James, III, has been named one of 13 medi-
cal scientists in the country who will receive $25,000 each
over a five-year period to continue on research staffs at medi-
cal schools. Announcement of the grant was made March 6,
by John M. Russell, executive director of the John and Mary
R. Markle Foundation, New York, which has developed a
program of aiding young doctors on teaching and research
staffs of medical schools.

Horace W. Bittenbender, Class Agent for ’40-L, has re-
cently changed his business address from The Empire Build-
ing to 505-505-A Rutland Office Building, 4th Street and
Central Avenue, N.W., St. Petersburg, Florida.

Hamilton Hertz is with the Editorial Staff, Men’s Wear
Magazine, 7 East 12th Street, New York 3, New York.

1941

Barry Wright, Jr., has been admitted as a partner in the
law firm of Wright, Rogers, Magruder and Hoyt, at 339%
Broad Street, Rome Georgia.

James B. Snobble has been living in Colorado Springs for
the past three years. He writes that he is completely sold on
the West and is enthusiastic about skiing and mountaineering.
Address: Box 272 Colorado Springs, Colorado.

M. P. Wiswell, who graduated from the University of
Michigan Law School, after leaving Washington and Lee
with the A.B. degree, has recently opened law offices in Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, in the Western Union Building.

1942

Edward M. Korry, an American staff correspondent of the
United Press, reported the case against Cardinal Mindszenty
to the outside world from behind the iron curtain. Graduated
from Washington and Lee School of Journalism in 1942, he

[ 24 ]

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

joined the United Press in 1943. Located in Belgrade
applied for a Hungarian visa to cover the Mindszenty
It was granted and he went to Budapest by automobjj
dispatches were telephoned to Prague and there was py
dication that they were censored.

William D. Burns is among the 275 students enrolle;
semester in the spring class of The American Instity
Foreign Trade at Thunderbolt Field, Phoenix, Arizona, }
address: 75 Inger Place, Joplin, Missouri.

J. Aubrey Matthews has been chosen as president ¢
recently organized Marion, Virginia, Junior Chamber of ¢
merce.

Robert S. Lambert, Jr., is a partner in Management
sonnel, a service retained by management to recruit qu
personnel for specific positions—not an employment ag
He married Joy B. Andrews of Cleveland on October 16,
Address: 745 Greenville Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Hudson C. Miller, Jr., and his brother have recently
chased the Cullman Broadcasting Company, WKUL,
ject to F.C.C. approval, and the Cullman Banner, Culh
Alabama.

Fran Russell, sports editor of the Smyth County N
Marion, Virginia, was awarded the Frank Cunningham
nalism Trophy, donated by Frank Cunningham, B.A.,
author of the biographies, “Big Dan” and “Sky Master
Story of Donald Douglas.” The trophy is presented each
by Delta Upsilon Fraternity to the senior who has made
outstanding contribution to journalism during his sta
Washington and Lee.

John C. Kammerer will resume his work with the
Geological Survey in Philadelphia in July, following his
ent one-year leave of absence for work at Massachusetts
stitute of Technology. Address: 531 West Eighth Str
Plainfield, New Jersey.

Rev. Charles T. Sardeson has recently accepted a
Grace Lutheran Church, Waynesboro, Pennsylvania.

Lawrence W. Galloway was recently appointed to
sales force of the Harry B. Cook Company, food brokers
Baltimore, Maryland. He will head the bulk and instituti¢
department of the Cook Company. He formerly served
the Coca-Cola Bottling Company, sales promotion dep;
ment in Baltimore. Address: 1009 Woodbourne Aver
Baltimore, Maryland

Kenelm L. Shirk, Jr., has announced the opening of his
fices for the general practice of law at 33 North Duke Str
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Grey Flowers is engaged in the general practice of
having opened offices some two years ago in the First ?
tional Bank Building, Vicksburg, Mississippi.

1944

George T.. Wood is manager of traffic appliance sa
Graybar Electric Co., Inc., 167 Walton Street, N. W., Atlé
1, Georgia. He states that he and Clancy Ballenger will be
hand for the reunion:

Robert H. Seal is now with Remington Rand, Inco
rated, in Houston, Texas. Home address 3160% Pickw
Lane, Houston 4, Texas.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——
1945

Robert G. Walker is among the 275 students enrolled this
) the spring class of The American Institute for
ade at Thunderbolt Field, Phoenix, Arizona. Home
East Lincoln Way, Lisbon, Ohio.

semester it
Foreign de
address - 322

Richard A. Kimball, in February, was in Shanghai, China,

“h the Texas Company (China) Ltd., working as assistant
ds Edward Fern Pilley, ’30, Purchasing Manager in Gen-
Be Ofice of California Texas Oil Company. Mr. Pilley is a
ove of Texas, but grew up in China, while Dick Kimball
ST horn and reared in China. Home address: 1133 West-
vroreland Avenue, Norfolk 8, Virginia.

1946

T. Ryland Dodson has announced as a candidate for one
ef the two seats at stake for the House of Delegates from
Pittsylvania County, Virginia, in the August 2, Democratic
primary. He is a member of the law firm of Fowler and Dod-
son, 613 Masonic Building, Danville, Virginia, and his home
is in Ringgold, Virgina.

J. Fielder Cook is in the television department of J. Walter
Thompson advertising agency in New York. Residence ad-
dress: 1230 Park Avenue, Apartment 10E, New York City.

Robert C. Harter has joined the staff of Life Magazine as
a Retail Representative. His training with Life will be in the
field of advertising and retail merchandising. Preparatory to
starting his field work he received a special course in Life’s
main offices in New York.

1947

Harrison B. Kinney is completing work on his master’s
degree in English at Columbia University. He has recently
joined the staff of the New Yorker magazine. Address: 600
West 11lth Street, New York 25, New York.

1948

Fred Hollyday is working on his Master’s degree at Duke
University, which he hopes to get this summer.

Francis L. Lee is completing his field training as a repre-
sentative for the Tremco Manufacturing Company, of Cleve-
land, Ohio. He hopes to be placed somewhere in the South
when his training is completed, although he and his family
are living on Long Island Sound and have all the salt-water
‘ports at their front door. Address: Green Gables Pleasure
Beach, Waterford, Connecticut.

Robert Kent Smith, LL.B., 48, and Thomas William Som-
mer, LL.B., 47, were admitted to practice in District Federal
Court, Charleston, West Virginia, on April 13, 1949. Both of
them are practicing law in Charleston.

George and Charles Blackburn, brothers, LL.B.’s of °48,
ave passed the North Carolina bar examinations and been
Presented to the bar and sworn in for practice in a ceremony
im Granville County Superior Court in Oxford, North Caro-
ina. They will occupy one of two new law offices now being
built on Young Street opposite the court house in Henderson,
‘orth Carolina, which will be completed by mid-summer.

1949

Mesames Leslie Dow has opened law offices in Carlsbad, New
MEXICO,

1951

Howard C. Rogers, who was a student here in 1947-1948.
is now in the Air Force for a year, but expects to return to
Washington and Lee this fall.

Marriages
1929

William Weaver Pace was married to Sue Eleanor Roper
on November 6, 1948, in Portsmouth, Virginia.

1941
Donald Lester Stein was married to Joan Beverly Barker
in March, 1949,
Richard A. Mehler was married to Mary Lou Baber on
March 19, 1949, in Alexandria, Virginia. Edward D’Emilo, ’41,
was best man at the wedding.

1942

Bob Pinck was married to Miss Helen Rast of Lucerne,
Switzerland, on May 4, 1949.

1943

Barton Wister Morris, Jr., was married to Margaret Ann
Jarrett on May 7, 1949, in Roanoke, Virginia.

1945

James W. Harman, Jr., was married to Evelyn Rossetta
Herring, March 29, 1949, in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Charles Clinton Stieff, II, was married to Priscilla Upshur
Whaley on April 16, 1949.

Robert Edward Jackson was married to Christina Mar-
garet Reid on April 22, 1949, in The Riverside Church, New
York, New York.

1947

Charles Howard Shook, Lieutenant United States Army,
will be married to Elizabeth Ann Drake on June 17, 1949, in
Dobbs Ferry, New York.

1948

John Elvis Miller, Jr., was married to Phyllis Sherlock
Thorpe on April 13, 1949, in Christ Church, Pelham Manor,
New York.

1949

Edmund Piper Cancelmo was married to Dolores Coates
Shepperd on October 4, 1948.

 

Births

1925

Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Heilig announce the birth of a
son, John Linn Heilig, born April 8, 1949, in Salisburg, North
Carolina. This makes four sons for the Heilig family.

Mr. and Mrs. George William Halstead are the parents of
a son, Kenneth George, born February 2, 1949.
1929

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Lockett, Jr., are the parents of a
daughter born March 2, 1949.

1932

Dr. and Mrs. Jack Stark are the parents of a daughter Jo
Ellen, born April 16, 1949,

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1933

Mr. and Mrs. Claude A. LaVarre are the parents of a son
born May 6, 1949. This is their third child and second son. Ad-
dess: Apartado 155, Panama, Republic of Panama.

1935

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ravenhorst are the parents of a sec-
ond daughter, Kathrena Elizabeth, born February 18, 1949.

1936

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Oscar Danielson are the parents of
a daughter, Cornelia Joy, born April 4, 1949.

1937

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Lehr are the parents of a son, Larry
Bruce Lehr, born January 24, 1949.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur S. Metcalf are the parents of a sec-
ond child, a beautiful little daughter, Laura, born November

28, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. Homer D. Jones, Jr., are the parents of a
son, Lawrence Alexander Jones, born March 1, 1949.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. S. L. Kopald announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Nancy, on February 8, 1949, in Memphis, Tennessee. Mrs.
Kopald is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Daves of
Lexington, Virginia.

Dr. and Mrs. James F. Berry are the parents of a daughter,
Pamelia Jean, born March 5, 1949. Their home address has
recently been changed to 512 Domer Avenue, Takoma Park,
D.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Wilson, Jr., are the parents of a
son, Thomas Carlyle, III, born April 26, 1949.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Belcher are the parents of a son,
Charles Edwin, Jr., born April 15, 1949.

1948

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Stephens are the parents of a
daughter, Deborah Jane, born February 23, 1949.

In Memoriam

1876

Thomas Raymond Boyle died in April, 1949, in Memphis,
Tennessee, at the age of 95. He was the oldest lawyer in
Memphis, and the oldest alumnus of Washington and Lee,
graduating the year after General Robert E. Lee died. —

1888

William Maxwell Barton died at his home in Fredericks-
burg, Virginia, September, 1948.

1893

Dr. Harry W. Pratt died February 4, 1949, in Montreat,
North Carolina.
1896

William McChesney Yarbrough died April 25, 1949, at his
home at Fort Defiance, Virginia.
1897
Nelson H. Greene died April, 1949, in Miami, Florida.

[ 26 |

1899

Smith Edison Alford died February 20, 1949. Hig 4
was in Flushing, New York.

1900

R. J. Joyner died February 22, 1949. His home ,
Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.

James Julius Winn, Jr., died at his home in Clayton,
bama, March 29, 1949,

   
 
 
    
   
   
  
    
    
    

1904
Rev. Herbert Stabler Osburn, D. D., retired Epise

rector, died at his home in Tappahannock, Virginia, Y
11, 1949.
1905
Joseph L. Wysor died December 27, 1948, at his hor
Pulaski, Virginia.
1906
Mark Sheafe died January 12, 1949, at Watertown, §
Dakota. Mr. Sheafe was one of the co-authors of the
ington and Lee Swing. !
L. D. (Lonnie) Howell died February 1, 1949, of a }

attack while hunting. His home was in Jacksonville, Flo

1909
John Madison Earl Sullivan died at his home in St.
Missouri, February 17, 1949.
1911
Robert A. Russell of Rustburg, Virginia, died Apr
1949. Mr. Russell served for two terms as a member of
Virginia State Senate from Campbell County.

1912

Fallon O’Byrne died February 19, 1949. His home wa
Pasadena, California.
1917

Dr. Francis Bartow Enneis died at his home in Jack
ville, Florida, September 30, 1948.

1919
Dr. Jack Wallace Ferguson died February 5, 1949,

home was in Ceredo, West Virginia.
1920

Aubrey H. Dornan died April 9, 1949. His home
Chester, West Virginia.
1923
Seth M. Clarkson died May 5, 1949. His home wa
Miami, Florida.
1925

Thomas S. Moore and his 12 year old son, Thome
Moore, were killed in an automobile accident near Ezel, 5
tucky, on February 3, 1949. Mr. Moore was a native of f
bridge County and was born and reared near Lexington,
ginia.

1927

Rudolph Gleaton died May 15, 1949, in Columbia, Se
Carolina.

1928

James M. Thrasher died October 24, 1946. His home
Stoneville, North Carolina. This information has only rece
been reported to the Alumni Office.

1938

Donald J. Cushman died very suddenly on April 2, 1
following an operation. His home was in Babson Park, P
Massachusetts.

 

 

 

—<$§@§@£J_

BICENTENNIAL

National Celebration

and.

Alumni Reunion
June 16-18, 1949

¢

Make your plans now to be
present. This will be the lar-
gest gathering of alumni in
Washington and Lee's his-
tory. All classes will
hold reunions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

me he. Ie “epee
* yy gL odehe pin ‘
~ iad me ¥
Awe " 4 eo
ae +;
eee ed Ls

cd - ass te

ad = » o% .
pyamrist: I ang jy 5

 

Now Available

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

WITH BICENTENNIAL BACK STAMP
Colors: Blue and Mulberry

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $18.00 per set

—
=

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

