The
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

JUNE, 1950

LIBRARY OF

 

Class Agents for 1950

1900 —Alumni Office

1901 —Alumni Office

1902 —Dr. W. T. Ellis, 1115 W. Lindley Avenue, Philadel-
phia 41, Pennsylvania

1903 —William J. Turner, 70 Pine St. New York 5, N. Y.

1904 —S. W. Schaefer, M.D., 178 East 70th St. New York
21, New York

1905 —D. A. Bradham, Box 86, Warren, Arkansas

1906 —Dr. F. R. Crawford, Box 208, Farmville, Virginia

1907 —Dr. Frank McCutchan, Box 1247, Salisbury N.C.

1908-A—Abram D. Somerville, P.O. Box 387, Cleveland, Miss.

1908-L—Roscoe B. Stephenson, Covington, Virginia

1909-A—Sorsby Jemison, care of The Young & Vann Supply
Co., P.O. Drawer 2532, Birmingham 2, Ala.

1909-L—Melvin E. Cruser, 511 Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk 10, Virginia

1910-A—John H. Tucker, Jr., 901 Commercial
Shreveport 24, Louisiana

1910-L—Walter M. Hood, Alabama Power Company, Birm-
ingham, Alabama

1911-A—Michael Brown, Edgemere Drive, P.O. Box 237,
Matawan, New Jersey

1911-L—Roger M. Winborne, 209 Highland Avenue, Lenoir,
North Carolina

1912-A—Tom Glasgow, Box 1997, Charlotte 1, North Carolina
1912-L—Robert C. Dow, 426 North Vassar, Wichita, Kansas

1913-A—Fred W. McWane, Lynchburg Foundry Company,
Lynchburg, Virginia

1913-L—Junius W. Pulley, Courtland, Virginia

1914-A—Morris L. Masinter, 803-4 State and City Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

1914-L—Junius L. Powell, 90 John Street, New York 7, N. Y.
1915-A—Leslie S. Anderson, Box 62, Mayfield, Kentucky
1915-L—Loring C. Kackley, P.O. Box 66, Berryville, Virginia

1916-A—Horner C. Fisher, 1101 Harvey Building, West Palm
Beach, Florida

1916-L—Earl B. Rose, 537 North Broadway, Lexington 12,
Kentucky

1917-A—A. G. Paxton, Box 263, care of Paxton Company,
Greenville, Mississippi

1917-L—Gus Ottenheimer, P.O. Box 2061, Little Rock, Ark.
1918 —Jas. J. Izard, Box 2571, Roanoke, Virginia

1919 —J. R. Fain, City National Bank, P.O. Box 2114, Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina

1920-A—W. F. Parker, 515 Ingraham Building, Miami 32, Fla.
1920-L—Fadjo Cravens, 119 North 15th St., Fort Smith, Ark.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 305 Pierce Bldg., St Louis 2., Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, 402 Peoples Bank Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Box 2848, Orlando, Florida

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving St., Arlington, Va.

1923-A—George Edward Harris, Atlantic Beach, Morehead
City, North Carolina

1923-L—John J. Hudak, 133 Chestnut Street, Garfield, N. J.
1924-A—E. D. Gibson, 217 Park Ave., East, Mansfield, Ohio
1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, Suffolk, Virginia

1925-A—J. M. Holt, Box 911, Lewisburg, West Virginia

1925-L—Clarence E. Hinkle, 412 J. P. White Building, Ros-
well, New Mexico

1926-A—George B. Wilkinson, 216 Johnston Building, Char-
lotte 2, North Carolina

1926-L—James Kay Thomas, Atlantic Greyhound Corpora-
tion, Box 2553, Charleston, West Virginia

1927-A—William M. Pope, care of National Bank and Trust
Company, Charlottesville, Virginia

Building,

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

1927-L—Euclin D. Reeves, 89 Benevolent Street, Provide,
Rhode Island

1928-A—Wilmot L. Harris, Mail Pouch Tobacco Compa
Wheeling, West Virginia

1928-L—Irvin W. Cubine, Burch Bldg., Martinsville, Virg;
1929-A—George H. Goodwin, City Hall, Bastrop, Louisja;

1929-L—John Bell Towill, 1014 Southern Finance Build
Augusta, Georgia

1930-A—Gerard E. Grashorn, 38 South Dearborn Street, G
cago 3, Illinois

1930-L—B. L. Rawlins, 436 Seventh Ave., Pittsburgh 30,1

1931-A—Lloyd A. Myers, Jr., Black Diamond Trailer Co,
pany, Inc., Bristol, Virginia

1931-L—R. J. Thrift, Jr., Fayetteville, West Virginia

1932-A—Sherwood W. Wise, P. O. Box 426, Jackson ]
Mississippi

1932-L—Henry W. MacKenzie, Jr., 110 Middle Street, Por
mouth, Virginia

1933-A—Luther F. Violett, 290 Broadway, New York 8, N,

1933-L—John L. Ericson, 27 West Main, New Britain,

1934-A—Holmes M. Dyer, 15 Sixth Avenue, Atlantic Heigh
New Jersey

1934-L—Robert Bailey, Pineville, West Virginia

1935-A—Frederick de Rosset Strong, Pepperell Manufact
ing Co., 160 State Street, Boston 2, Massachuse

1935-L—E. C. Clements, Rolling Fork, Mississippi

1936-A—I. Glenn Shively, 85 Garber Street, Chambersbu
Pennsylvania !

1936-L—John M. Miller, 1424 Sixteenth Street, N. W., W
ington 6, D. C.

1937-A—Robert E. Graham, 6 Law Range, Sumter, S. C.

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of Goldsmith’s, Memph
Tennessee.

1938-A—Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 1857 Union Commerce B
ing, Cleveland 14, Ohio

1938-L—Waldo G. Miles, 725 Arlington Avenue, Bristol,

1939-A—Charles G. Gilmore, Travelers Insurance Compan
212-14 South Tryon, Charlotte, North Carolina

1939-L—Philip M. Grabill, Woodstock, Virginia

1940-A—Reid (Steve) Brodie, Jr., P.O. Box 498, Owensbe
Kentucky

1940-L—H. W. Bittenbender, Box 2911, St. Petersburg 1,
1941-A—Alvin T. Fleishman, Box 253, Anderson, S. C.

1941-L—John E. Perry, 1515 Park Building, Pittsburgh 1
Pennsylvania

1942-A—Robert F. Campbell, Jr., 6 Pearson Drive, Ashevi
North Carolina

1942-L—Howard W. Dobbins, 900 Travelers Building, Rid
mond, Virginia

—Joseph F. Ellis, Jr., Box 666, Friars Point Ros
Clarksdale, Mississippi

oe L. Stilwell, 25820 Tungsten Road, Euclid h
io
—J. A. Philpott, Box 536, Lexington, North Carolit
1946 —Charles E. Belcher, Box 8, Bluefield, West Virgit
1947 —Brent Breedin, Jr., Daily Mail, Anderson, S. C.
1948-A—Walter B. Potter, P. O. Box 444, Hopewell, Virgit

1948-L—Joseph E. Blackburn, 709 Krise Building, Lynchbur
Virginia

1949-A—H. Glenn Chaffer, 49 Fairfield Avenue, Darien, Com
1949-L—W. H. Jolly, Box 143, Salem, Virginia

1943

1944
1945

 

 

———

Appalachian—Francis R. Russell, '43, Marion
Publishing Co., Marion, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building

Baltimore—A. L. Michaux, Jr., 5701 Chinqua-
pin Parkway

Birmingham—Clifford B. Beasley, Jr., '46, 2824
Overhill Road

Boston—William R. Nutt, ’43, 80 Federal St.

Charle ston, West Virginia—Frank R. Bell, Jr.,
'43, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘'27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—W. H. Hillier, '38, 5521 Blackstone
Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcroft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Samuel P. McChesney, Jr., '38, 1556
Hanna Building

penville, Ter C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box

Detroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—Horace W. Bittenbender,
iO, St. Petersburg, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—A. T. Bishop, Jr., °'41 Monarch
Motor Company

Lynchburg—Peyton B. Winfree, ‘35, 3865
Peakland Place

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—W. J. L. Patton, '22, National City
sank, 55 Wall Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
‘13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—E. A. Sartor, Jr., ’38 Gid-
dens-Lane Building

North Texas—Harry Rand, ‘27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, ‘37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, Southeastern
Suilding, Greensboro, North Carolina

Richmond—W. B. Jacobs, '29, Central National
Bank

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Harry J. Breithaupt, '36,
Investment Building

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

RM Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

 

Vol. XXV JUNE, 1950 No. 3

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PRAMOUN hii. Sci WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Vice-President........ FREDERICK §S. JoHNson, 1911
SOCTOATY.2.55.5..5.082:. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TY CQSUPEP ........ccccccccees Horace W. PuHILtips, 1908

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Amos A. BoLen, 1934
FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911
WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. Puitvips, 1902
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931
GrorcE E. Burks, 1927
C. C. Moors, 1913
KENNETH P. LANE, 1936

THE COVER

Doesn’t this remind you of Spring on the Campus?

 

HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE. |

‘4

(>)

Washington and Lee University

Vol. | NOVEMBER, 1924 No. |

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine’s first cover

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Twenty-Fiitth Anniversary

By John French, ’50

This year marks the Silver Anniversary of your Alumni
Magazine. The first issue of accounts of interest to alumni
was mailed out to all graduates of \ ashington and Lee in
November, 1924, and it has been published four times yearly
since that date.

' Throughout the years there have been a good many
changes i” the things which go into the Alumni Magazine,
the way they go into it, and espeecially in what has actually
happened to the University since that time.

Therefore, as we begin the second quarter-century of
publication, we will go back 25 years to that first issue and
take notice of just what was happening to Washington and
Lee in the year 1924—or rather what was recorded in the
Alumni Magazine as happening on the campus.

“Davis for President”

That was the year John W. Davis, ’92, had been nom-
inated by the Democratic Party for President of the United
States. Being an alumnus of Washington and Lee, there
was a great deal of feeling and activity on the part of fellow
alumni in his effort to attain that high office in the Novem-
ber election. And although he was defeated, it was by no
means through a lack of support from his fellow alumni.

The cover of the first issue was made up entirely of the
picture of Davis, with the cut line, “John W. Davis, '92, for
President.” That was the keynote of the Magazine’s cam-
paign, and from there it went on to what was being done
by Washington and Lee men in his behalf.

In the cities of Washington and Memphis, Davis Alumni
Clubs had already been formed, and were busy raising funds
to aid him in his campaign. In New York, an alumni meeting
was held at Madison Square Garden, with Davis as guest
of honor. Here, also, a vast sum of money had been raised
for his fight for the Presidency.

Furthermore, a national club had been organized through
the University to raise funds just as the Alumni Fund
carries on this activity. An account was given of just how
successful this had been, with a break down of contributions.

Then, as a special tribute to Davis, there was a full page
story on his life from prep school, through Law School at
Washington and Lee, and on up the ladder to his position
in the national scene at that time. Praise was great, and it
was obvious that his alma mater was behind him one hundred
per cent.

President in Accident

The previous summer before this original publication,
the President of the University at that time, Dr. Henry
Louis Smith, had been involved in a bad automobile wreck
in the West.

In a story in this issue, it explained that the doctor was
making a fast recovery, but was not at that time in Lexing-
ton at the insistence of the Board of Trustees that he take
a three-month rest.

New Trustee—Now Oldest!

Announcement came in that November issue of the
Alumni Magazine of the appointment of a new member of
the Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee. His name
Was James R. Caskie, 06; today, the longest serving mem-
ber who is still living.

Sp tar far tq: x.

  

 

  

“237
‘a

  
 

r i a

ws ould es ba : i , : " ‘ f ;
Bs ER Se

The Chemistry Building
a quarter-century ago

 

 

Caskie had been active in a good many respects with
Washington and Lee up till that time, and had a family
history which further substantiated this record of service.

His great-grandfather had also been a member of the
Board from the years 1826 to 1842. During the Revolutionary
War, he had served under Washington, and following it had
delivered a good deal of service himself to the University.

Today, James R. Caskie tops the list of the Board of
Trustees—appointed in 1924, and the oldest member of the
Board.

 

“New” Chemistry Building

Along with your Alumni Magazine, the Chemistry Build-
ing on the W. and LL. campus is also celebrating its Silver
Anniversary this year. Built and completed in 1924, it was
occupied that fall, and has been in continuous use ever since.

The new building was fully equipped to handle as many
as 250 students, and pictures of the nearly completed struc-
ture adorned the pages of this first issue.

More Room for Football

Another newly completed structure at that time were
the all-steel stands on Wilson Athletic Field. Enough stands
to seat 3,000 persons had been completed that year, and were
a noticeable improvement to what had been there up to that
time. Since then, the stands have been further enlarged to
seat almost 8,000.

The cost of the expansion and construction had been
almost $43,000, and the stadium was the talk of the campus,
as well as of alumni throughout the country. Still, the con-
crete footbridge had not been completed at that time.

Rough Football Schedule

As is still a special feature of the first issue of the
Alumni Magazine each year, football took the limelight in
that November copy. And in taking the limelight, it also
presented an interesting picture of the strong Washington
and Lee team which existed at that time.

The schedule that year called for ten consecutive games

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

  

 

 

 

 

THe STapium
Ta date

Illustrations from

your magazine 25 years ago

  
 
 

THe Stapiem
Ultimately

 

without any off weekends. Since that time one game has
been knocked off of the line-up.

Highlighted among the strong foes the Generals faced
were such schools as Wake Forest (played in Lexington),
the University of Kentucky, North Carolina State, and a
“strong University of Florida eleven.”

Aside from these major foes, the other six teams played
were among today’s Southern Conference teams. West Vir-
ginia was then, as now, on the schedule, and the rivalry
was just as strong.

That was long before football scholarships had ever been
heard of on college campuses, but the teams which met
each other—Washington and Lee included—were no less
strong and full of fight.

Registration Rising Then

Another feature of the Alumni Magazine which is
still seen today was the announcement of registration figures
for the year. As it was at the beginning of this year, the
figure then was a rapidly rising one. The report was made
by Earl S. Mattingly, who at that time was Registrar, and
now is Treasurer of the University.

With all students enrolled, there was the then amazing
total of 823 men enrolled at Washington and Lee. The article
pointed out that during the course of the previous ten years,
this figure had risen from a low of 495 students in 1914. The
rise had been a steady one.

At that time, also, they had planned to limit registration
to 800 men, but had decided to take as many more law and
science students as were qualified. This is the way the limit
is being run today in these postwar years of large student
bodies.

Plans at that time called to limit the registration in the
future to this number, but due to the recent war that idea
was dropped in 1946. Registration now tops the 1200 figure.

New Fraternity Houses

Big news in the year 1924 was the building of several
new fraternity houses on the Washington and Lee campus.

[ 6 ]

 
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
  
  

For one thing, the Beta Theta Pi’s had become the fir
fraternity to build a house on University property. Th
house built at that time is what is now known as Red Squar
still used by them. Since then, however, the Sigma Nu, F
Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, and Phi Delta Theta fr
ternities have followed that example to form a compa
group in the “Square.” 7

Other fraternities had just managed to purchase hous
for their own use. Up to this time all fraternities had rente
The Delta Tau Deltas, Phi Gamma Deltas, and Kapp
Sigmas all purchased homes which they are still using toda
The PiKAs and Phi Kaps have since moved from the home
they acquired that year. The Alpha Chi Rho house was als
newly purchased, but since that time this fraternity ha
become inactive on the Washington and Lee campus.

“Swing” Becoming a Favorite

When the original issue of the Magazine was _ printec
the newly written Washington and Lee Swing was sweepif
its way to popularity throughout the country. In this issu
was a story by one of its main authors, Thornton W. Alle
‘10, telling how its fame was becoming wide-spread.

For one thing, the song was playing an important pat
in the Davis’ campaign for the Presidency. It was bein
sung at most of his rallies, and in some cases new wore
to fit the occasion were set to the original score.

Several recordings were being made for the new vic
trolas, and schools throughout the country were borrowif
the now-famous tune and setting it to words for their schoe
song. So with both tune and words the “Swing” was fas
becoming one of the most popular college songs in th
country.

New Roads for Lexington

As the age of the automobile was becoming more af
more important, so were the roads to Lexington whi
connected it with surrounding parts—and girls’ schools.
to this time there had been nothing but dirt roads leadif
out of Lexington, but the State Highway Department
beginning to consider the Mink’s plight.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

Announcement came at this time of a new hard-surfaced
road to Staunton which had just been completed. They were
‘n the act of finishing a hard-surfaced one from Lexington
to Natural Bridge.

Also, by January 1, 1925, the new paved road from
Lynchburg would close up that gap. And last but not least
for consideration, there was a road to Clifton Forge which
would “ultimately give an opening from the W est through
West Virginia.” Its completion was in the distant future,
howevel.

Flournoy Won Honors

A story came to the Alumni Magazine that year from
Oxford, England, telling of a high honor bestowed upon
one of Washington and Lee’s Rhodes Scholars. He was
Fitzgerald Flournoy, who at the present time is a Professor
of English on the campus.

Flournoy had gone to Oxford two years before as a
Rhodes Scholar after graduating from W. and L. Here,
after two years in English Literature, he had been awarded
an “Oxford First” in this field. Up to that time he was only
the second American student to attain this high honor.

* * * * *

And so it went with the first Washington and Lee Alumni
Magazine, published in November, 1924. Its stories seem
rather antiquated to us today, and yet they help to tell a
bit of the last 25 years of Washington and Lee history.

Since that time, the Magazine has ceased taking adver-
tisements—at that time its main source of subsistence. Today,
it is published as a non-profit Magazine through the Alumni
Fund, and still works on as a continual monument to you—
the alumni of Washington and Lee.

 

The Printing Shop Fire

It was a rather dull Saturday morning with overcast
skies, very typical of March 11 in Virginia. Classes were
going on as usual, and to most it appeared nothing could
interrupt the normal every-day schedule.

At exactly 9:22 a.m., however, something did interrupt
it. At that moment the big clock on the wall of the Journalism
Press Laboratory, where your Alumni Magazine is printed,
stopped. The electricity went off all over the campus, and
the dullness of the day became quite apparent. And then
the excitement began.

At that moment, fire, which probably had been smolder-
ing for some time, broke out in the attic of the Print Shop.
It was finally determined that defective electrical wiring in
the section above the smelting furnace had caused the trouble.
In no time at all the fire was too big to be handled by any-
one except the Lexington Fire Department, which arrived
about ten minutes later. Meanwhile, all classes on the hill
were standing in front of the Print Shop, and many of the
more energetic were busily carrying out the carts laden
with the half-printed February issue of the Alumni Maga-
zine. It was all saved—about $1,000 worth of it, including
the stock and labor.

After firemen had fought for an hour with the stubborn
flames, they got them under control, but not until a large
Section of the roof and the ceiling had fallen down onto
the presses and other equipment. The overall damage to
the building proved to be a little over $5,000, while the
Inside contents were damaged to the extent of about $3,000,
Which was caused mostly by water and loss of paper stock.

What saved the building from burning entirely, according
to C. Harold Lauck, superintendent of the Press, was the
rock wool which had been installed in the attic last summer.

 

 

  

   

oem >

After

the fire

 

It held the fire back until it could be trapped on that floor,
saving all the valuable equipment on the first floor.

When the flames had died away, many amazing dis-
coveries were made. Mr. Lauck had time to clean out some
of the old records he had been accumulating for the past
15 years which practically filled the hallway of Washington
Hall.

In the recess on top of an old cut cabinet, which had
been moved to the Print Shop from Payne Hall in 1935
and had stood in a corner ever since, was found the original
architect’s drawing of the proposed new Journalism Build-
ing. This drawing had been missing since it was made in
1931, and now has been turned over to Professor Riegel.

Also, in the same place, post-fire searchers found the
charter of Sigma Delta Chi, professional journalism frater-
nity. It had not been seen since the Washington and Lee
chapter was founded in 1928, and was a welcome sight to
all journalists who hadn’t been aware they were functioning
without a charter for the past 22 years.

On the Monday after the fire, the presses and Linotype
had been cleared of debris, and a tarpaulin covered the gap-
ing hole in the ceiling. A job had been on the small press
at the time of the fire, and with the help of a wire strung
across from another building, was run off that morning—
just two days after the serious blaze.

Work began immediately on repairing the roof and ceil-
ing, and continued without interruption for three weeks. On
April 3, everything was in shape, and the presses began
rolling again according to schedule.

And when operations were again resumed, it was with
several new improvements. Fluorescent lights had been
installed in three long rows at the ceiling, where hanging
fixtures used to be the only source of light. The building,
which was taken over as the Print Shop in 1935, was
painted inside for the first time in those 15 years. A general
clean-up took place—and the presses are in tip-top shape
as the result of a complete going-over. To top off the new
atmosphere, new green window shades now cover the
windows which used to glare openly into the room.

And now, once again, the production is up to its previous
high level. The clock is again running—and rock wool again
adorns the attic. They’re not taking any chances on losing
the $50,000 worth of equipment in case lightning should
strike twice in the same place.

[7 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Pre-Med School Is Most Exacting

By John French, ’50

One of the most exacting of all the departments on the
Washington and Lee campus is that which trains the ever-
working pre-medical majors. Right up until the day they
receive their A.B. degrees, these men continue their work
with increasing industry—for that degree is only the begin-
ning of their professional education. Furthermore, this
department at Washington and Lee is one of the best in
the country.

Between 10 and 12 per cent of the total enrollment in
the College of Arts and Sciences is made up of pre-med
majors—a proportion which has remained constant over
the last 30 or more years. At present there is a total of 81
men in the four years combined.

Acceptances High

Of the men who are graduated in pre-med, acceptances
in medical schools allowing them to carry on their desired
profession are generally high. According to Dr. Lucius J.
Desha, Professor of Chemistry since 1920, “those men whose
records justify their strong endorsement by the faculty can
usually count on acceptances by the medical schools of their
choice.”

This year, men who will receive their A.B. degrees in
pre-med have been accepted by a total of 10 different schools.
These are: University of Pennsylvania, John Hopkins Uni-
versity, Washington University, Yale University, Duke Uni-
versity, University of Louisville, University of Cincinnati,
University of Virginia, University of Georgia, and the Medi-
cal College of Virginia.

Although the schools vary from year to year, the first
two of these (Pennsylvania and Johns Hopkins) nearly
always have some Washington and Lee men enrolled. Very
seldom, however, does any one medical school take more
than two men in a class from any one undergraduate college.

High Mortality Rate

There has never been any accurate tabulation of just
how many men are majoring in pre-medical work at any
one time, but figures do show that the mortality rate for
the department is rather high.

Total graduates each year number between 12 and 15,
seldom ranging away from these numbers. However, in
each freshman class, there are generally 30 to 40 men who
start out aiming for degrees along the pre-med line. Thus
the apparent rate of mortality is seen to be quite large.

Those who do drop from the ranks are lost either
through a change of mind on the part of the individual or,
in several cases, by men dropping out of school altogether.

One reason for the low number of men who carry on
in the pre-med field is considered to be the known facts
about the applicants to medical schools each year who find
no room. Last year, for example, out of 30,000 individual
applicants throughout the country, only 6700 were admitted
to medical schools to continue their study.

Department Well Equipped

On the whole, this department on the Washington and
Lee campus is one of the best equipped of its kind. There
are more than sufficient facilities to handle men in the

[8 ]

    
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
   

fields of Chemistry, Biology, and Physics—the pre-y
science studies. The only serious lack is sufficient laborate
space for use by students studying Biology.

The heads of the department got a clear picture of ju
how adequate their equipment is through experience dury
the last war. In the 1943-44 session, approximately 20 y»
who had been studying pre-med at Washington and
under the A.S.T. program were transferred to a 1g
Midwestern university.

Shortly afterward, letters were received from a numb
of these men, telling that they found facilities at their n
school much inferior to those to which they had be
accustomed at Washington and Lee.

Included in the proposed Bicentennial building progra
was a plan for a combined Biology and Geology struct
which would remedy the lack of space in these department
However, due to the fact that only a little over $120,
was donated to that building fund, no immediate plans a
seen for the construction.

Degrees Now a “Must”

Twenty-five years ago, many of the students who we
into the study of medicine took only two years of academ
work, and then went on to medical school. Today, with th
greater numbers seeking to become doctors, this is ve
seldom the case.

Although in theory the medical schools will accept me
with just two years of undergraduate work, they seldo
practice this plan—nor have they for the past 10 year
The reason is that there are so many good men with degre
who apply that those without them are given little cor
sideration unless they are very exceptional cases. Toda’
all pre-med students at Washington and Lee plan for
bachelor’s degree before even starting to think about the
medical training.

Faculty Numbers Nine

Besides Dr. James Lewis Howe, who became Professe
of Chemistry in 1894, and now is Professor Emeritus, th
faculty of the pre-med department numbers nine men. O
these, Dr. Desha and Dr. Robert W. Dickey have bee
connected with the University as Professors for more thal
30 years.

The list of the nine, along with their fields and the ye
they came to Washington and Lee, is as follows:

Biology—Professor Kenneth P. Stevens, 1946; Asse
ciate Professor James H. Starling, 1942; Instructor Joh
FE. Davis, 1949,

Chemistry—Professor Lucius J. Desha, 1920; Professe
John F. Baxter, 1946; Assistant Professor Esmarch
Gilreath, 1946; Instructor Edward P. Whaley, 1948.

Physics—Professor Robert W. Dickey, 1916; Assistam
Professor Thomas E. Lothery, 1938.

And so, with this well-rounded faculty, the Washingto
and Lee pre-medical department continues to prepare mé
for the long road ahead of them in the field of medicine
Each man who graduates with his degree in this fiel
whether he goes on into medicine or not, has received fror
these instructors a broad background in the three sciencé
which they represent.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. and L. Concert Guild Formed

By Bill Gladstone, ’52

ig

as

 

Row.

Dean James G. Leyburn

 

 

An outstanding contribution to campus life this year has
been made by the Washington and Lee Concert Guild, a
newly formed organization designed to provide greater
opportunity for the students to hear good music. The group
Was started by an enthusiastic and enterprising nucleus of
W. and L. students.

Bruce Woodruff, Jr., a senior from Atlanta (son of Bruce
F. Woodruff, Sr, W. and L. 716, LL.B. ’21), originated
the idea of the Guild and became its first president. The
old saying, “like father, like son” would seem to hold true,
for the elder Woodruff is President of the Atlanta Symphony
Guild, an honorary position which he holds in addition to
his work as a member of the law firm of Woodruff, Swift
and D, rsey.

The concerts sponsored by the Guild are free to all stu-
dents and townspeople. Although restricted by a lack of funds,
the group has been able to present several top-notch artists
during the course of the year.
seven-man Organizational
each fraternity house, the

and
has

Board
Guild

Led by a
sentati ves in

repre-
estab-

lished itself as one of the most active organizations on the
“ampus. Mr. B. S. Stephenson, ’42, Assistant Professor of
German, is faculty adviser to the group.

The Guild is financed solely by personal contributions.

In fact, several of its members have carried their enthusiasm

 

to the point of raising funds by selling pints of their life’s
blood to the local hospital.

The outstanding young pianist, Thomas Brockman, whose
New York debut at Carnegie Hall in January established
him as one of the nation’s most promising artists, was the
first performer to appear under Guild auspices. Indeed, his
exceptionally fine performance aided greatly in successfully
launching the organization.

Second artist to appear was Dean James G. Leyburn,
an accomplished pianist in his own right. Although person-
ally holding dearly to the rank of “amateur pianist,” Dean
Leyburn proved undeniably that his talents and accomplish-
ments are those of a professional.

In April, the Guild sponsored the young Virginia so-
prano, Mildred Heimlich, and in May, the noted contralto,
Irene Beamer. Both of these artists were most enthusiasti-
cally received. Miss Beamer’s audience enjoyed her perform-
ance so much that she was given a standing ovation.

Plans for next year’s events are already underway, and
the Guild has high hopes of surpassing the success already
achieved by their initial presentations. Several well-known
artists have expressed their desire to perform at Washing-
ton and Lee, and the Guild is busy finding new means to
raise the money necessary to present them.

One of the major projects for 1950-51 is the presentation
of a musical show similar to those given under the direction
and inspiration of the late John A. Graham.

The members of the W. and L. Concert Guild will wel-
come any contributions from interested alumni, which may
be sent to Box 881, Lexington, Virginia.

 

JONES NAMED “MAN OF THE YEAR”

John M. Jones, A.B., ’37, Business Manager of The
Greeneville Daily Sun, was named “Man of the Year” in
Greeneville, Tennessee, this week by the Greeneville
Chamber of Commerce, which makes this annual award.

Jones was presented with a handsome silver cup engraved
with the following inscription: “For civic service during 1949,
the man of the year.”

As President of the Greene County Foundation, Jones
led a drive which resulted in bringing two large industries
to Greeneville during the year. He was also active in
numerous other civic enterprises.

Jones was recently elected President of the Tennessee
Association of the Associated Press, and recently served as
Vice-President of the Tennessee Press Association and
chairman of the daily group of papers in that state.

He is a graduate of Tennessee Military Institute, Sweet-
water, Tenn.; Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Va.; and served as an infantry captain in “Merrill’s Ma-
rauders,” famed jungle volunteer organization which fought
behind Japanese lines in Burma during World War II. He
also served as aide-de-camp to Admiral Lord Louis Mount-
batten and later as executive officer to Lt.-Gen. R. A.
Wheeler, commanding general of the India-Burma theatre.
He was discharged from the service as a lientenant colonel.

Jones is associated in the publication of The Greeneville
Daily Sun with Mrs. E. O. Susong, prominent Tennessee
newspaperwoman for more than thirty years.

He has three sons, John M., Jr., Alex, and Gregg.

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

University Adds Fifth Year

A one-year program of advanced scholarship, believed
to be unique in higher education, will be introduced in Wash-
ington and Lee University’s 202nd term next fall.

Under the program a fifth year of undergraduate study
will be added to the school curriculum. The additional study
is designed to be especially attractive to students interested
in supplementary education on the undergraduate level and
leading to an additional diploma.

Dean James G. Leyburn specified that the fifth year
work was not conceived along graduate school lines.

“Many students discover the pleasures of the intellectual
life only in their senior year. A program is needed to enable
them to continue to broaden their horizons,” Leyburn
explained. “Most graduate work requires specialization rather
than expansion, and the graduate student is primarily for
prospective teachers and research scholars, not for men who
wish a broad education.”

“Students who register for the first year will be encour-
aged to explore new fields of study for which they did not
have time during their first four years and to continue
research in those fields which appealed to them as under-
graduates,” Leyburn said. The additional studies may also be
used to strengthen credentials for admittance to graduate
schools.

An additional diploma in the form of a “Certificate of
Advanced Studies” will be awarded to the student upon
completion of the fifth year. His name will be listed in the
permanent records as a “Scholar of the University.”

In addition to Washington and Lee graduates, men
holding degrees from other approved institutions will be
accepted for the advanced study program. Dean Leyburn
made it clear that the program will be limited to students
who have attained a minimum average grade of “B” during
their senior year.

In some respects the program will resemble another
Washington and Lee innovation that appeared in the univer-
sity’s curriculum last year—the independent work “major”
in which the upperclassman plots his own pattern of study,
subject to the approval of a faculty committee.

Similarly, the fifth year student will formulate his own
work plan, which must be approved by the faculty commit-
tee on courses and degrees before he is admitted to the new
program.

All courses listed in the university catalogue will be open
to the postgraduate student.

 

Cooperative Course in
Engineering

Washington and Lee University, the Carnegie Institute
of Technology, and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute have
completed arrangements for a cooperative program of educa-
tion to enable students to obtain a broad general education
before specializing in a field of engineering.

The plan is contained in a joint announcement released
by President Francis P. Gaines of Washington and Lee,
Robert E. Doherty of Carnegie Tech, and Livingston W.
Houston of Rensselaer.

Under the cooperative program, students will attend
Washington and Lee for three years followed by a two-year

[10]

 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

attendance at either Carnegie Tech or RPI. At Washingte
and Lee they will be engaged in a liberal arts curriculy,
with major emphasis on physics and mathematics.

After having completed certain requirerients at Carnegj
Tech or RPI, students will receive the Bachelor’s degre
from Washington and Lee. Upon the setisfactory comple
tion of the two-year program at Carnegie [ech or Rensselae
the student will receive also the Bachelor’s degree in engineer-
ing from one of the latter institutions.

In announcing the joint arrangement, President Gaines
said that “We are glad to be allied with these two dis
tinguished institutions under a plan which, we are confident.
will contribute importantly to the general education o
brilliant engineers of the future.”

From Troy, N. Y., where Rensselaer is located, President
Houston aheniceesl. that “We consider Rensselaer to be
most fortunate in its new association with one of the oldes
and most distinguished colleges of liberal arts, which
also had a distinguished history in the field of engineering

“Students enrolled under this new program will not only
receive the advantage of a progressive and forward-looking
program of education, but they will also receive the advan-
tage of the combined traditions of two of the nation’s oldest
educational institutions.”

RPI is the oldest engineering school in English speaking
countries. Last year while it observed the 125th anniversary
of its founding, Washington and Lee was observing its ow
bicentennial.

Washington and Lee opened a School of Civil and Minir
Engineering in 1849. The engineering curriculum was ex-
panded by introduction of courses in mechanical engineering
under the presidency of General Robert E. Lee. Lee emphas-
sized training in engineering as an integral part of what f
envisioned as the best program for the New South. Electrica
engineering was later added to the course.

Although W. and LL. discontinued the awarding
engineering degrees in 1932, the basic courses common te
all engineering curricula have been maintained in a pr
engineering program.

Members of President Houston’s family have been asse
ciated prominently with Washington and Lee’s history. His
father was a W. and L. graduate, and his uncle, the late
Prof. Hale Houston, was the last head of the University’s
engineering school. |

 

Twombly Wins Scholarship |

E. P. Twombly, Jr., now a student at Washington ane
Lee, is among the ten young American artists who have
been awarded scholarships to the Art Students League 1
New York for the 1950-51 term. This is a full-tuition grant
awarded him in competition with art students throughout
the nation, and was awarded on the basis of drawings and
paintings covering composition, anatomy studies, still lif
and other art forms submitted to a panel of prominent
artists who served as a national board of judges.

Son of Mr. and Mrs. E. P. (Cy) Twombly, head of the
Department of Health and Physical Education at Wash-
ington and Lee and varsity coach of golf and swimming
Twombly has studied at the Museum of Fine Arts in Bostot
where several of his early paintings have been exhibite¢

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

With the Local Chapters

Baltimore

A meeting of the Baltimore Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni was held April 29, 1950, in the McCormick
building for the purpose of acquainting juniors and seniors
ef local high schools with W. and L. The program included
the showing of the technicolor bicentennial film on W. and L,,
and a very interesting and informative talk by Dr. William
Jenks. There were 22 members present, and 16 prospec-
tive students representing 6 high schools.

This was the second meeting of the newly re-organized
Baltimore Chapter, which is becoming increasingly active
due to the efforts of Lud Michaux and Cal Bond, and the
support of a solid core of W. and IL. men interested in
continuing their “College Friendships.” Many plans are
in the making and the future of the chapter is most promising.

See ee

Florida West Coast

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association for the
Florida West Coast held its annual dinner meeting the
evening of April 4, 1950, in the Palm Room of the Tampa
Terrace Hotel, Tampa, Florida.

“Doc” Flick presented a very interesting and informa-
tive address relative to the present activities on the campus.
He also brought us up to date on the lives of our former
professors and friends.

The following members participated in this meeting:
B. L. Malone, Jr.. Wm. Earle Tucker, Wm. H. Fray,
Judge Henry C. Tillman, John Bell, David A. Falf, Howard
Macfarlane, Jim Anderson, W. J. O’Berry, W. K. Timber-
lake, W. G. Jackson, J. Tom Watson, C. T. Dawkins,
William C. Norvell, Hugh C. Macfarlane, and Horace W.
Bittenbender.

A short business meeting was held and the following
members were elected to office: President—Horace W.
Bittenbender, and Secretary—Wm. Earle Tucker. The next
annual meeting will be held at the Bath Club, Gulf Beaches,
St. Petersburg, Florida.

eS. 2) Bowe oF

Huntington, West Virginia

Alumni of Huntington, West Virginia, met for dinner,
preceded by a social hour, at the Frederick Hotel on Febru-
ary 24, with 28 alumni, wives and guests in attendance.
Dr. Walter Flick and George Barclay were present, rep-
resenting the University, and Roy Campbell, ’37, president
of the local chapter, presided. The Washington and Lee
film, “Two Centuries of Service,” was shown.

Alumni present were Selden McNeer, 16, Selden McNeer,
Jr., 49, Philip P. Gibson, 13, Eddie Long, ’21, G. W. Keller,
‘06, Preston Henshaw, °39, Charles Bagley, ’42, Fred M.
Bailey, ’20, Judge Ira Baer, 06, Vickers Watts, ’24, Amos
Bolen, ’34, Elliot Vawter, 09, Maurice Flynn, 49, James O.
Porter, ’21. John E. Schiefly, ’48, G. H. Wright, Jr., 49, Roy
Campbell, 19, Dr. William P. Hooper, ’08, Charles T. Garten,
mC, D Mayor, ’26, Buck Conrad (student), Joe Massey,
‘49, A. W. Mann, 15, Donald H. Putman, Jr., 44, and George

einer, °47.

 

Pittsburgh

Nine loyal alumni held a dinner meeting at the Roose-
velt Hotel on April 24, organizing a loczi Alumni Chapter.
William G. Gault, ’30, was elected President; Cyrus V.
Anderson, °38, Vice-President; and Robert Taylor, Jr., ’27,
Secretary. The Executive Board consists of these officers and
Edgar Eaton, Jr., 36, Allen DeLand, ’32, Howard Wentley,
50, Dr. Ted Leatherman, ’24, William Medcalf, ’34, and
Joe Shuman, ’25.

 

Kaufman, ‘33, Heads Department

Charles W. Kaufman has been appointed head of the
General Foods Department of Research and Development
for General Foods Corporation. He joined General Foods
Central Laboratory staff in Hoboken in 1939; was named
director of food technology in 1942 and assistant manager
of research and development three years later. He spent
some time with the Army Headquarters Corps in develop-
ment of rations and lend-lease items.

Before going with General Foods he held research posi-
tions with the National Fruit Products Company and the
National Canners Association. Home address: 17 Ravine
Road, Tenafly, New Jersey.

Mr. Kaufman is a native of Martinsburg, West Virginia;
graduated with the A.B. degree in 1933; was a Phi Beta
Kappa and president of the senior science class.

 

Charles W. Kautman, ‘33

[il]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

An Interesting Class Letter

Volney M. Brown, ’02, member of the law firm of Kemp,
Smith, Brown, Goggin & White, State National Bank Build-
ing, El Paso, Texas, has written such an interesting letter to
his Class Agent, that we are quoting practically all of it.
He received his law degree from the University of Texas.

March 25, 1950
Dr. W. T. Ellis,
1115 W. Lindley Ave.
Philadelphia 41, Pennsylvania.

My dear Ellis:

“This coming June will be fifty years since I left Lexing-
ton to return to Texas, with the expectation of entering the
law class in September, 1900, at the University of Texas,
from which I graduated in June, 1902.

“In July, 1898, late one afternoon I removed the saddle
from my favorite saddle horse, on my father’s ranch some
sixty miles south of San Antonio, sewed the bridle, spurs,
and quirt and gloves in a gunny sack and hung it up in
the saddle room on the ranch, and next morning left for
San Antonio to board the train to Lexington, Virginia,
which I reached late on the afternoon of Saturday, July
21 or 22, to spend the next six weeks in preparation for
my entrance into advanced standing in the Latin and English
classes at Washington and Lee, and my experience at Wash-
ington and Lee was my first experience in connection with
instruction of any character except private instructions from
my father and mother, and some teachers on the ranch.
The experience was a novel one to me, a green country
boy, with very little previous contact with the world. In
spite of some disappointments and much hard work, I
enjoyed the next eleven months in Lexington, especially
my work in Latin under Dr. Fay and English under Dr.
Currell.

“The months of May and June saw many heavy floods in
Texas and our ranch was isolated for more than three weeks;
there were no telephones in the country in those days and
mail was received on the ranch only two or three times a
week. For over a month I was unable to hear from the
ranch and at Commencement I was flat broke. After finals
I met President Wilson at the depot as I was bidding some
of the boys goodbye. He asked me if I were going home.
I told him I wanted to, but hadn’t been able to hear from
the ranch and was without funds. About thirty or forty
minutes later I met him coming into the postoffice as I was
coming out, and he asked me if I had received a letter from
the ranch, and I said, “No.” He told me to come to his
house at 1:00 o’clock and he thought he could arrange for
me to get enough money for me to return home.

“At one o’clock I met him and he asked me how much I
needed, and I told him enough to pay my railroad fare to
San Antonio, where I could get some money from my
father’s bank, and I also owed some money at the livery
stable, and my last month’s board. He asked me how much
I needed, and I told him it would take about $75.00 to cover
it all. He gave me a check for $100.00. I had under-guessed
the necessary amount very badly, and arrived in St. Louis
with a ticket for San Antonio and twenty cents in my
pocket. I was pretty hungry. I got a cup of coffee and a big
bun with a big slice of ham in it for ten cents that didn’t
satisfy me, so I spent the other dime for another bite. In

[ 12 |

  
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
  

passing through Arkansas I was in a day coach. I did
travel Pullman those days. An old gentleman came in w
a big bag of bananas. He said, “Here, son, help yourse
eat all you want,” and I think I supplied myself rag}
abundantly. |

“The next morning I woke up just before we enter
Austin, and found that during the night the car had be
changed into a Negro car and I was the only white m:
in the car. They were all going down to San Antonio
June 19th, that being Texas Emancipation Day.

“Just south of Austin I happened to pass through
Pullman car and saw a sheepman named Campbell and }
wife, who knew me since I was a child and were friends
my father. I happened to mention to Mr. Campbell I
getting along pretty well but was broke. He never said ar
thing, but about thirty minutes later he came into the che
car where I was sitting and handed me a $20.00 bill. €
course, I very gratefully received it and when I got ba
to San Antonio was able to pay him, and went to the b
where I had a letter from my father to the bank directir
the bank to let me have any money I needed. Incidental
just as I got on the train at Lexington, after getting a che
from President Wilson, I was handed a telegram from tt
bank at San Antonio that it had wired $100.00 to the bar
at Lexington. When I got back I ordered the bank to tur
that money over to President Wilson, whose act which
often thought of with great pleasure.

“This is a long story, but there is something that I
add. In the meantime, after we had moved to the ranch
the ’80s, the railroad had been built within forty miles
the ranch. I took the train to Falls City on the railroad som
forty miles from the ranch and, due to interrupted com
munications, there was no one to meet me. I hired a hors
at Falls City and left late that afternoon for the rane
reaching it at one o’clock the next morning. That ended m
first year at Washington and Lee, but I saw plenty of actic
that summer in connection with a raid on our ranch
which four mules and four good saddle horses were stolet
including my saddle hanging upon the shed near the ranel
house. We caught the Mexicans. One was killed in a figh
when the officers went to arrest him, one went to the Peni
tentiary, and the other was found dead a few days later.

“That summer I was riding my favorite saddle horse wi
a friend on the Republic Road when a Mexican who hz
just taken several shots at another Mexican, killing his hors
met us on the road and killed the horse that my friend y
riding. I heard that shot, but people who saw the inciden
said he shot several times, saying ‘Cuiado me vida no val
I didn’t hear the other shots. I do remember getting off m
horse trying to help, thinking that possibly the man with
whom I was riding had been killed, but he was unharmed.

“This is a long story and deals with personal matters,
and really has no concern with anyone but myself. Ne
year, in the fall of 1899, I returned to Washington and L
and left there in June 1900 to begin my law studies tha
fall in the University of Texas, and since August, 1902, I
have been in El Paso pretty actively engaged in the practice
of law, a life entirely different from that in the saddle of
the range where I had spent twelve years previously to going
to Washington and Lee.”

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

On the Campus

As the second semester of Washington and Lee’s big
third century began to evolve, there was much big news
on the campus. Politics, a sure sign of spring fever at W.
and L.., again took the limelight; while other non-political
endeavors of equal importance also came to the front. They
all make for interesting reading—especially the following.

 

Big First Semester Loss

When grades were all in for the first semester it was
discovered that the largest number of students since the
war had fallen under the University Automatic Rule.

A total of 58 students had failed to make the necessary
grades and faced possible exclusion from school. These men
still had the right to appeal to the faculty committee on
re-admission, and these appeals did win some of them a
second chance.

After the appeals had been scanned, the committee
decided to reinstate 23 of those whose cases it had con-
sidered. The other 35 left the University.

The overall totals included 21 freshmen, ten of whom
were reinstated. Most of the upperclassmen were those
who had been on probation and failed to make the necessary
C average.

On commenting upon the large number of men falling
under the Automatic Rule (last year there were only 44),
Dean Frank J. Gilliam said that it was a normal rise. He
pointed out that the number of veterans had fallen con-
siderably this year—the veterans “from whom strong aca-
demic work can be expected.”

Many of the upperclassmen—about one-third—fell under
the Automatic because of overcutting classes.

* * * * *

New Tennis Courts

Early in February announcement was made by Dr.
Gaines that a battery of six new fast-drying tennis courts
were to be built immediately for student use.

Dr. Gaines made the tentative announcement at his first
appearance of the year—the state of the University assembly.
The courts, he said, were being built with a ten thousand
dollar gift presented by Mrs. Kelly Evans of Hot Springs,
Arkansas.

The new courts, which have just been completed, are
constructed under the concrete footbridge where the old clay
courts used to lie. They have a surface of fine, crushed rock,
and are slanted about eight inches away from Wilson Field.

With this physical nature, and the frequent rolling they
get after every rain, they are ready for use within a few
hours after even the heaviest downpour.

et See ee Ree

222 Pledges Get Through

On February 15 a sigh of relief could be heard from
one end of the campus to the other—and even at the neigh-
boring girls’ schools where many freshmen had gone to
share their joy. It was the end of the annual “Hell Week”
at Washington and Lee, and a total of 222 freshmen had
made the grade.

This number was only 67 per cent of the total number
of men pledged in September, yet this was about average
'n comparison with former years. Sigma Nu initiated the

[1

>

o

 

 

  

Publications Board says “goodbye” to its own Mr. Chips.
John (Hig) Williams admires the new gold watch presented
to him by student editors for faithful service.

Hig Williams Quits Publications

The University Publications Board recently said a cere-
monious “Goodbye” to their own “Mr. Chips.”

John Higgins Williams, ’24, Associate Professor of
Political Science, was honored by the Board for nearly 20
years’ service as Publications Board faculty adviser. Prof.
Williams, who has seen Calyx, Southern Collegian and
Ring-tum Phi editors hired and fired for almost two decades,
was presented with a gold watch at a smoker ending the
Board’s 1949-50 activities. Among other smaller gifts pre-
sented to the retiring adviser was a calendar “to assist Prof.
Williams in getting to class on time.”

Replacing Prof. Williams as a faculty representative to
the Publications Board will be William A. Jenks, ’39, Assist-
ant Professor of History. He will serve in company with
Prof. Rowland W. Nelson of the English Department.
Publications Board regulations require that one faculty
member must be an alumnus.

 

most men—1l15—while PiKA and Beta came next with 13
each.

“Hell Week” itself was slightly changed from past years
as the Interfraternity Council kept a close control over all
activities. Each house had to present a list of its proposed
activities to that body which OK’d most of them—and
forced the houses to do away with a few ideas.

One house, Phi Delta Theta, was the victim of a $25.00
fine as a result of use of an unscheduled activity. Their
pledges painted their Greek letters on signs from here to
Sweet Briar, which the IFC didn’t seem to approve.

Se aie ee

Hints on Minks
Early in March a new publication went on sale on the

  

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Lee campus, entitled “So You're Dating
a Mink.” Edited by two sophomores—Richard Ballard and
Karl P. Warden—it is being sold by the Student War Me-
morial Scholarship Committee with proceeds going to that
fund.

The book is a compact forty pages of the do’s and don’ts
of dating a Mink. It is being sold throughout Lexington,
in the Co-op, and in stores on the campuses of neighboring
institutions to whose students it would hold special interest.

Only 1000 copies have been made which sell for 25 cents,
and the way sales are going at the present time plans are
already being made for a second edition.

Incidentally, the Student War Memorial Scholarship
Committee has already raised almost half of its $10,000 goal.

* * * * *

Politics Roar

Last year when the Independent Party took the three
major offices on the campus at the May election it promised
to revamp the system of politics at Washington and Lee
to make it more “representative.” It had won an election
for the first time since the war, and its determination was
great.

When these men took office this year, however, they
found that it was no easy task to draw up a system which
could actually achieve the goal they had promised. Several
plans were submitted, but didn’t seem to answer the question.

Then, in the middle of March, announcement came of the
proposed amendment to the Student Body constitution which
would make the change. It called for the Executive Com-
mittee to be made up of a representative from each of nine
houses on the campus one year, and one from each of the

 

 

Horace Gooch, Jr., ’31

[ 14 ]

   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
   

other eight plus the Non-Fraternity Union on the follows
year. Representatives were to be elected by the houses,

Controversy flew, and weaknesses of the plan wep
countless in the minds of most students. In a bitter arg
ment at an EC meeting, the Secretary of the Student Bog
resigned, calling the proposed amendment unfair to the gror
he represented—the Non-Fraternity Union.

And when election day came on April 14, the studeng
registered their discontent with the proposed change, defeay
ing it by an overwhelming margin. They didn’t conside
it “representative” enough—and anticipation was great fg
the coming May elections this year, its campaign promise
and its multitude of campus politicians.

 

EXCERPT FROM A CLASS LETTER

“It is said—‘The first impression is lasting’—and that
quite true in this case. I was two weeks late in enterir
W. and LL. and on my arrival in Lexington that disma
morning, with my feelings in the bottom of the barrel,
was pulling up the hill from the railroad station, all alone
a lost little country boy in a strange land, more in the hume
of going back home than to college, when up you came
put your hand out, saying,—I’m ——
You took my bag, had me matriculated and never left m
for one moment until I was safely settled in my dormitory

, | am very glad you happened along that time
I am indebted to you.”

 

 

A CORRECTION AND AN APOLOGY

Dr. Edwin Richard McCoy, A.B., ’36, is very much alive
in spite of an asterisk by his name in the recently publishee
Alumni Directory, indicating his decease. He is serving ¢
Chief Resident in Obstetrics at Crawford Long Hospital it
Atlanta, Georgia, and his home is at 17 Prescott Street, N.E
Atlanta, Georgia.

Horace Gooch, Jr., ‘31, Honored

Horace Gooch, Jr., LL.B. ’31, treasurer of Worcester
Plastics Company, Worcester, Mass., was elected Presiden
of The Society of The Plastic Industry, Inc., at its meeting
held at Hot Springs, Virginia, on April 28. This is a trade
and technical society of over 500 companies and 1000 indi-
viduals in all branches of the plastic industry interested in
the practical solution of problems concerning the industry
located throughout the United States, Canada, and thirteen
other countries. This will be Mr. Gooch’s second year at
the head of this organization. He has served as chairmaf
of the New England Section of the S. P. I. in 1948 and 1949,
and also a national director in the latter year.

After graduation from Washington and Lee Mr. Gooch
returned to his home in Amarillo, Texas, and in 1936 moved
to Worcester, Massachusetts, eventually establishing the
Worcester Moulded Plastics Company there with Philip J
Graham on October 28, 1939.

He married Jane Bradford of Plymouth, Massachusetts,
and they have a daughter, Sally, and a son, Bradford. He is
director of the People’s Savings Bank, Industrial City Bank
and Banking Company, Worcester Community Chest, ane
Worcester Club, as well as treasurer and director 0
Worcester Hahnemann Hospital.

When in college, Mr. Gooch was a member of the Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity and the Phi Delta Phi legal
fraternity.

Address: 14 Hygeia Street, Worcester 8, Mass.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

pring

The majority of the Washington and Lee teams got off
to winning starts this spring, then fell off the all-winning
pace to settle on .500 records. With the sports season head-
ing into its last week, it is safe to state that the Generals’
overall record in the spring will be at the .500 mark.

Sophomores filled most of the positions on Cap’n Dick’s
2th W. and L. team. Five of the first-year varsity men
early won first-string positions and defied upperclassmen
to remove them.

Bay Arnold, a fine receiver and .300 hitter from Saltville,
won all rights to the catcher’s job as soon as he completed
spring football practice. Ed Streuli, a smooth fielder from
Memphis, took over the second base job, and Dave Waters,
the all-around star from Huntington, W. Va., established
4 claim on third base. Frank Summers, Jr. and Don Shuck
divided the left field duties.

These sophs backed up classmates Jack Eubanks, Shelby,
N.C., and Billy Mauck, Richmond, Va., who did most of the
pitching for the 1950 Generals. Eubanks was the prize
moundsman on the staff, winning the majority of his games
and drawing the toughest assignments.

Other than the sophs, Cap’n Dick had three seniors and
one junior in the starting lineup. Captain Willis Woods,
Clifton Forge, and Jim Fahey, the three-sport star from
Cumberland, Md., roamed the outfield, and Ed Thomas, a
fancy fielding first baseman, completed the trio of seniors.
Charlie Agnor, Lexington, was the lone junior on the team.
He performed at shortstop. Another valuable senior who
saw action both in the outfield and on the mound was Lacey
Putney, a lefthander from Big Island.

The frosh baseballers, coached by Con Davis, won well
over half their games and appear to have several fine pros-
pects who will bolster the varsity next year. Ben Walden,
a first baseman, and Pitchers Harry Dey and Tom Maker
and Outfielder Randy Broyles are listed as varsity material.

Probably the team that earned the nod as “the most
improved” was Norm Lord’s track squad. Energetic and
enthusiastic, Coach Lord took over the task of coaching
the thin-clads after Harry Broadbent resigned. He soon
developed a team that was highly respected in state circles,
although the Generals lacked the necessary depth to win
consistently.

Pete White, the hurdling star from Lynchburg, once
again paced the team. White improved with every start and
by the time the Big Six meet was held, he was skimming
the barriers in championship form. He won the 120-yard
highs in the fast time of 14.7, and came back to score a
double victory by capturing the 220-yard lows in 23.7
seconds.

Wally Oref, a junior from Elm Grove, W. Va., won
second place in the state javelin throw; Jim Gallivan, Green-
ville, S.C., junior, was a point winner in the high jump;
Yates Trotter, a sophomore “Arkansas Traveler,’ was third
in the 880. These were consistent point winners in dual
meets which saw the Generals win over Richmond, Davidson,
and William and Mary.

The Generals’ fourth-place finish in the state meet, while
“ notch higher than a year ago, could easily have gone
higher yet. The day before the meet was run in Blacks-
burg, W. and L,. lost the services of its undefeated distance
Star, Echols Hansbarger, sophomore from Charleston, W. Va.

 

“Murderers’ Row 1950”: Catcher Bay Arnold, ’52, Shortstop
Charlie Agnor (captain-elect), ’51, and Capt.
Willis Woods, ’50.

 

Hansbarger was advised by doctors to give up running for
a year because of a blood ailment. He had not been defeated
by state rivals in either the mile or two mile before his
illness, and it is not amiss to state that he would have
accounted for 10—or at the minimum 8—points in the Big
Six meet. These points would have put the Generals in
third position.

Lacrosse hit a high peak early in the season. Bill
Clements, Tommy Tongue, Jim McDonald, Alex Hill, Dave
Ryer, Jim Gray and their teammates picked on Maryland,
the nation’s No. 3 collegiate team in 1949, for the opening
opponent. And the Generals made the lacrosse experts sit
up and take notice by defeating the favored Terps, 9 to 8.
W. and L,. followed with a win over Rutgers before bowing
to Syracuse, the No. 5 team in 1949. Other wins were
registered over Washington College, North Carolina.

Most of the players on the 1950 squad are seniors and
will conclude their careers on the northern invasion to
Union, R. P.I1., and Williams.

Jim Anderson’s crew lost a split-second decision to a
strong Boston University boat in the opening race at
Balcony Falls, then came back strongly to defeat Dart-
mouth. As the season wore along the crew was hit and
hit hard by illness and injuries, but managed to win over
Rutgers before calling the season to a halt with the Dad
Vail Regatta on May 20.

The varsity golfers made a large splash early by winning
five successive matches over Ohio U. (twice), Holy Cross,
V. P.1., and Davidson. Virginia ended the streak, but the
Generals came back to dominate the Campbell Cup play at
Hot Springs, which brought together the section’s leading
amateurs. Wes Brown, Jack McCormack, and John McKelway
were the team’s most consistent winners. The team will
close its schedule with the newly established state tourna-
ment at Hot Springs on May 20.

[15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni at University Functions

The following alumni represented the
college and university functions throughout
during the past few months:

J. R. Fain, ’19, Inauguration of Dr. Dale H. Grimley as
President of Salem Academy and College on April 22,
Winston-Salem, N. C.

R. Blair Price, ’21,
Blanton as President
Chester, Penna., May 8.

Lewis Preston Collins, ’20, Inauguration of Dr. John H.
Fray as President of Marion College, Marion, Virginia,
on May 27.

Samuel Logan Sanderson,

University at
the country

of Dr. Sankey
Theological

Lee

Seminary,

Inauguration
of Crozier

22, Inauguration of Dr. Paul

Apperson Reid as President of Western Carolina State
Teachers College at Cullowhee, N.C., on May 6.
Robert C. Dow, °12, Inauguration of Dr. Harry Finch

Corbin as President of the Municipal University of Wichita,
Wichita, Kansas, on May 9.

Wilbert L. Tilden, ’10, Inauguration of Dr. Paul Alex-
ander Wagner, Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida, on
February 18.

Garland T. Davis, ’27, Centennial Celebration, University
of Utah, Salt Lake City, on February 27 and 28.

John McChord, °18, Inauguration of Dr. John Lowden
Knight as President of Baldwin-Wallace College at Berea,
Ohio, on May 12.

I. M. Scott, °37, Fifty-fourth Annual Meeting of the
American Academy of Political and Social Sciences at Phila-
delphia, April 14 and 15.

Thomas M. Harman, ’25, Inauguration of Dr. Millis of
Western Reserve University at Cleveland, in January, 1950.

Dr. Horace M. Banks, ’13, Inauguration of Dr. Harold
Wellington Richardson as President of Franklin College at
Franklin, Indiana, on April 29.

Louis F. Lubrecht, ’34, Inauguration of Dr. Hildreth as
President of Bucknell University at Lewisburg, Pennsyl-
vania, on April 29.

Dr. Charles Watkins, ’09, Inauguration of Dr. Charles
Marston Lee as President of Geneva College, Beaver Falls,
Pa., on April 23.

D. Newton Farnell, ’24, Inauguration of Dr. Dennis
Hargrove Cooke as President of High Point College, High
Point, N.C., on February 23.

C. C. Moore, °13, Centennial Charter Day Convocation
at Capital University, Columbus, on March 2.

Frederick C. Sage, ’46, Inauguration of Dr. John Raymond
Chadwick as President of lowa Wesleyan College at Mount
Pleasant, lowa, on May 11.

The Reverend Robert B. Campbell, ’24, Inauguration of
Dr. Voigt R. Cromer as President of Lenoir Rhyne College,
Hickory, N.C., on April 16.

 

Kent Foster, ‘37, and Toy Soldiers

Kent Foster, A.B., ’37, Professor of History at Penn-
sylvania State College, has been “playing” with toy soldiers
for the past six years, and says there is a lot to be learned
from this hobby. He has built battlefields, forts and minia-
ture towns to put his toys into, which he says has caused
him to learn a lot of history on the side. “To build a good
collection,” he says, “you have to do a lot of research. If
you make your own figures, you have to do a lot of digging
for authentic data and pictures. You can’t help but dig
out many facts of historical importance.”

Although history is his specialty, Foster claims to have

[ 16 ]

    
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
    
   
   

learned much about the times surrounding the Ame
War of Independence from his hobby. Most of the &
in his collection are concerned with that era of histor

He became interested in toy soldiers in 1944 wh
window display revived a boyhood desire to have an autt
collection. Since then he has both made and bought se
fine pieces for his collection. All the men are aboy
inches high. They are hand-painted by Foster. He n
his own soldiers out of an alloy of lead, tin and antir
casts them in molds of steel, wood or plaster of paris y
he cuts himself.

Journalism Adds Dark Room |

A new, modern darkroom has been completed an
now in service at the Lee Memorial Journalism Founda
Washington and Lee University.

Funds for equipping the darkroom were provided by
Lynchburg News and Advance, the Winchester Star,
risonburg News-Record, and Thomas S. Wheelwright,
of Centralia, Va., an alumnus. Space in the basement |
dormitory was provided by the University.

The darkroom occupies about 470 square feet of sf
and is equipped with an Omega 4x5 enlarger, a Fee
enlarger for smaller negatives, washer, dryer, trimmer,
other equipment. A thirteen-foot sink, an especially desig
workbench and cabinet, and a series of lockers for stude
were constructed by University carpenters.

Adjoining the darkroom is a studio occupying about
square feet of floor space. Displayed on the studio
are outstanding examples of student and professional f
tography as well as a permanent inscription recognizing
newspapers and individuals who made the darkroom poss

Regular spot and feature assignments, in which Sp
Graphic and other types of cameras are used, are proces
by the students themselves under the supervision of Labe
tory Instructor Herbert Patchin.

 

 

Riegel Goes to Germany

O. W. Riegel, director of the Lee Memorial Journali
Foundation at Washington and Lee University, will sp
the summer in Germany engaged in a special survey proj
for the Department of State.

The W. and L. professor will survey German universitt
and non-educational institutions in respect to the devele
ment of public opinion training and research.

During his tour of Germany, Riegel will visit the unive
sity cities of Berlin, Munich, Frankfurt, Marburg, Heidelber
and possibly other German cultural centers.

Riegel has acquired a broad background of knowledge
Europe through his service with various branches of t
U.S. Government and through educational and profession
channels.

He held several positions with the Office of War Inform
tion in Europe during World War II, including the positi¢
of regional specialist for Central and Southeastern Europ

Before joining the Lee Journalism staff at Washingte
and Lee in 1930, he had served with the Paris staff of
Chicago Tribune and the New York Daily News. In 193
he engaged in a study of the economic factors affectif
newspapers and press associations in Western Europe.

At the conclusion of the war in Europe, Riegel was af
pointed by the State Department as cultural attache af
public affairs officer of the American Legation in Budapest
Hungary. He returned to W. and L. from his wartime leay
of absence late in 1946.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——
Marion Junkin Art Exhibit

By Robert S. Munger, M.D., ’35

a lively warmth and color to the walls of the
yfcCormick Library is a superb group of paintings by
\farion Junkin, 27, Professor of Art at Washington and Lee.
' (he paintings are richly varied; indeed, the spectator
‘s impressed at once by the versatility of the artist and his
ability to avoid a too-tight, personal Style. Che artist him-
<elf looks on certain groups of his paintings as representing
_as clearly they do—decidedly diverse modes of expres-
sion. On the one hand is a group whith is poetry; and on
the other hand, a group which is prose.

Adding

In the former group are paintings, examples of which
are the first two in the exhibit, “Cherry Cove” and “Honey-
suckle and Bumble Bee,” which lyrically express in color
certain highly imaginative ideas of the artist. Rather than
work toward realism, the artist here uses the subject as
a point for departure for his expressive efforts. The result
is pure joy, fantasy, and poetry.

In the latter group, the paintings which are prose, are
“Dr. Sam Clark” (professor of anatomy at Vanderbilt),
“Torch Singer,” and the “Crucifixion,” from a consideration
ef which it is apparent what the artist means by prose. For
these paintings are factual documents, classical in concept,
carefully reasoned and rendered with a dramatic degree of
reality.

Art is inconceivable without play and humor. This aspect
of art is represented in several of Mr. Junkin’s paintings
of Negro groups, and at the same time there is perfectly
artist’s deep affection for and sincere admira-
Negro. Notable in this group are the delectable
“Strawberry Ice Cream Cone,” the wondrously contrived
“Sunday Morning’ (with the sway-backed dog) and the
appealing “Mother and Child.”

If I may indulge in superlatives (a critic’s prerogative),
to my mind the most adroitly painted picture in the exhibi-
tion is the “Cherry Cove” (a Carnegie Exhibition painting
of 1949); the most strongly organized, the “Sunday Morn-
ing’; the most refreshing, a tie between “Morning Breeze”
(the nude) and the high-keyed “Summer Time” (the yellow
dress); the most superficial, the “Torch Singer”; the most
humorous (and, indeed, one of the most significant paint-
ings I have ever seen), the “Crucifixion.” Most of the
paintings in this exhibition are recent products of Mr.
Junkin’s brush, dating back only four or five years, with
the exception of the “Crucifixion” which in 1939 occupied
a prominent hanging in the main salon of the Exhibition
of Paintings in the New York World’s Fair.

Every work of art is the arbitrary creation of an indi-
vidual who contrives to express his personal views, feelings,
and perceptions. A visit to this exhibition affords ample
evidence of the wide range of taste and temperament of
Mr. Junkin, whose paintings of originality, daring, and skill
reveal him as an accomplished artist.

patent the
tion of the

 

Wice, ‘27, ‘15-hours-a-day Man’

The Philadelphia Inquirer of Sunday, April 23, in its
Column entitled “Your Neighbors,” carries the following
sketch on Rabbi David H. Wice, ’27, entitled “He’s a 15-
Hours-a-Day Man”:

_ Rabbi David H. Wice admits that in one respect he
fails to practice what he preaches. “I counsel a day of rest
for my own congregation, but my own work schedule is a

15-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week affair,” he says.

 

David H. Wice, ’27

 

sut smiling, friendly, 42-year-old Dr. Wice appears to
enjoy his strenuous routine. Rodeph Shalom Synagogue,
Broad and Mt. Vernon Sts., provides not only religious
services, but also educational, cultural and social programs
for groups ranging from nursery-age children through youth
forums to a Parent-Teacher Association and a Men’s Club.

Dr. Wice gives lectures and informal talks, acts as
adviser to any member of the 1200 families who compose
his congregation. Also he is American director of the World
Union for Progressive Judaism; a member of the combined
Board of Governors of the Hebrew Union College of Cincin-
nati and the Jewish Union in New York, and lecturer for
the Jewish Chautauqua Society.

“My mission is to try to make religion meaningful in
people’s lives,” says Dr. Wice. Born in Petersburg, Va.,
Dr. Wice received his B.A. and M.A. degrees, later his
Doctor of Divinity degree, from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

Dr. Wice studied for five years at the Hebrew Union
College while doing social service work. He served as rabbi
of Temple Israel in Omaha and of Temple B’nai Jeshurun
in Newark, N. J. In 1947 he came to Rodeph Shalom.

Dr. and Mrs. Wice and their two children, Carol Ruth, 13,
and David Henry, 11, live at 21 Latham Parkway, Melrose
ark.

He manages to find time for two hobbies. One is travel,
accomplished during summer vacations. The other is col-
lecting ceremonial objects.

[17]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1894

E. P. Coles is happy in
his retirement from _ busi-
ness in Charlotte, N.C.,
where he still maintains his
downtown office, and keeps
comfortably busy during the
morning hours. His health
continues excellent. Address:
Commercial National Bank
Bldg., Charlotte 2, N.C.

1895

 

Let us remind you again that the material from
which these notes was compiled consists of let-
ters received by the class agents during the last
spring and summer and from questionnaires re-
turned by alumni during that period. If notes
are not up-to-date, we would appreciate any
further information you can let us have.

   
  
   
   
   

1902

Osman E. Swe
General Counsel for Up
Carbon Company, Ch
ton, West Virginia, eng
in oil and gas produe
and carbon black man
turing.

1903

Samuel McPhee
Glasgow, D.D., is now
tired as a Minister of

 

 

Lyne Smith, now retired
and living at 1422 Pearce Park, Erie, Pennsylvania, has
been happily married for many years and he and his wife
have reared three fine children, two boys and a girl, now
all out in the world and each doing well. He is the uncle
of Rev. David Cady Wright, Rector of the Episcopal Church
in Lexington, Virginia.
1897

O. C. Brewer is practicing law in Pulaski, Virginia; has
represented Pulaski County in the General Assembly of
Virginia, carrying the responsibilities of the Attorney for
the Commonwealth; and was Moderator of Abingdon
Presbytery.

1898

James Mullen is a member of the law firm of Williams,
Mullen and Hazelgrove with offices at 1001 East Main Street,
Richmond 19, Virginia. He writes that time has dealt reason-
ably light with him and he is still able to take an active
interest in the doings of Washington and Lee.

1898

Edward A. O’Neal has recently had a serious operation
from which he is recovering satisfactorily. He is planning
a trip to Europe the middle of May. His oldest son, Edward
A. O’Neal, III, is head of the great Monsanto Chemical
Plants over there with headquarters in London. Address:
221 W. Tuscaloosa, Florence, Alabama.

Dr. R. T. Shields, after serving as a Medi-
cal Missionary of the Presbyterian Church,
in China from 1904 until 1942, returned to
this country and was Assistant Professor of
Pathology in the School of Medicine, Univer-
sity of Tennessee. He is now retired and liv-
ing at 606 Cork Street, Winchester, Virginia.

1902

C. S. McNulty retired from the active
practice of law some years ago. His five
children are all married and he has 12 grand-
children, equally divided, 6 boys and 6 girls. ,
Address: P. O. Box 2065, Roanoke 9, Virginia.

J. Wood Glass is a member of the law
firm of Glass and Chappell, Nowata, Okla-
homa.

 

 
    
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  

Presbyterian Church, U.S
and makes his home in Charlotte, North Carolina. He
supply preaching and Conference Bible Studies in Che
and vicinity, where there are some 17,000 members of Pre
terian Churches, which offers a wide field of service in s
plying vacant pulpits. Address: 829 Ardsley Road, C
lotte 7, North Carolina.

William J. Turner and his wife were visitors in Lex
ton in May, while on a three-week motor trip through
South. Mr. Turner spent his youth in Lexington, and
have many friends here. ‘

1904

Dr. and Mrs. S. W. Schaefer sailed for a trip to Eur
cn March 10, returning May 10. Address: 178 E. 70th St
New York 21, N. Y.

George E. Haw is practicing law under the firm f
of Haw & Haw, 302-3-4 Travelers Building, Richmond,
ginia. The firm was founded by his father, George P. H
67, and the office walls are decorated with the diplomas
his father from the Law School of Washington College
(now Washington and Lee University) signed by Gen
Robert E. Lee; his own, ’04, and his son’s, George E., Jr.,

J. H. Gruver, after an active ministry in the Presbyte
Church of more than 40 years, is now retired and he ?
his wife are living in a lovely spot in the mountains of Ne
Carolina. They have two married daugh
and one granddaughter. Address: Box
Black Mountain, North Carolina.

E. W. Poindexter began the practice
law in Roanoke, Virginia, immediately ¢
graduation and has been continuously @
ever since. His firm is Poindexter and Pe
dexter, with offices in the Shenandoah
Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1907

Dr. W. W. Hargrave, retired from
U.S. Navy on October 1, 1949, with the
of Commodore, Medical Corps. He is ®

employed with the Virginia State Hea
* Department as Health Officer, Campb
Charlotte District, with offices at Rustbu
Virginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

Rev. Thomas F. Opie, D.D., retired Episcopal clergy-
man, formerly of Staunton, Virginia, is living in the Hills
of Berkshire, in Massachusetts, at Great Barrington. He has
lately organized what he calls OUTSIDE AID for patients
‘, mental hospitals. He thinks that this field is the neediest
, the whole social picture of American life—and, the most
vegiected. His organization is in contact in twenty states
and has effected the release of a number of patients from
State mental institutions—one via habeas corpus after twenty
-ears’ incarceration. Dr. Opie also conducts a daily column
for the press and writes for The Churchman, the Psychic
Observer, Jamestown, N. Y., and other periodicals, and does
a lot of book-reviewing, while supplying in various Protestant
churches in New England from time to time. He still thinks
his Alma Mater is the greatest little university in the world.

1910

Rev. W. Carey Barker of Lynchburg, Virginia, has
accepted the pastorate of First Baptist Church, Newman,
Georgia. He was ordained February 22, 1950, in College Hill
Baptist Church where he began his career as an evangelist.

1912

Dr. Edward Lyons is now living at 1331 East Boundary,
Gainesville, Florida, and thinks that state is just what he
needed after sojourns in Virginia and Detroit.

Otho Shuford, after leaving school, followed accounting
and for several years was secretary and treasurer of an auto-
mobile distributor; had a short stretch in World War I.
He is still a bachelor, and this is his 22nd year in the public
accounting profession with the firm of James A. Matthews
& Company, sixth floor, Manhattan Bank Building, Memphis
3, Tennessee.

Wayne Ely is a member of the law firm of Ely and Ely,
Tenth Floor, Commerce Building, St. Louis 2, Missouri. He
_ writes his class agent that he and Bob Hobson, ’17, are
members of the Executive Committee of the International
Association of Insurance Counsel, which will meet at White
Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, in July, and that, at their
Suggestion, arrangements have been made for President
Gaines to be the principal speaker of the occasion.

Russell B. Wine is practicing law with offices at 807
National Bank of Commerce Building, San Antonio, Texas.
He expects to attend the fortieth anniversary of his high
school in Broadway, Virginia, in June. All the members
of his class are living and will be there. He will be in
Lexington for Finals, and hopes to meet many of his
friends here.

_Lawrence E. Goldman is practicing law in Kansas City,
Missouri, with offices in the Rialto Building.

James O. Day was admitted to the Mississippi Bar after
receiving his LL.B. here in 1912, practiced law 1920-23; state
senator, 27th District, Mississippi, 1928-32; Circuit Court

Judge, 1933; Assistant U.S. District Attorney, 1938-48;
€nal Division, U.S. Internal Revenue Service, U.S.
Treasury Department since 1948; appointed counsel for

-S. Senate Committee governing District of Columbia,
Washington, D.C., for term beginning January 1, 1945. He
IS presently stationed in Atlanta, in Regional Counsel’s Office,

€nal Division, Internal Revenue Service. Address: Box
276, Main Post Office, Atlanta, Georgia.

1913

Gaylord Stone is president of Universal Mills, Fort
Worth, Texas. He has three daughters and six grand-
children. Two of his sons-in-law are associated with him
in the mills. He has been identified in civic affairs in Fort
Worth and Texas, and president and director in various
organizations. His hobby is fishing—when he has time.

Fred W. McWane, Class Agent for 1913-A, is Assistant
to the President, Lynchburg Foundry Company, Lynchburg,
Virginia.

1914

Morris L. Masinter is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the State & City Bank Building.

Junius L. Powell and his wife are having a five-week
trip to England, leaving New York on May 2. Address: 90
John Street, New York.

1915

James E. Bear, D.D., has been teaching in Union Theo-
logical Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, for eighteen years.
Last year he was elected to the Chair of World Missions,
to take effect at the end of the current session. He took a
Sabbatical year visiting mission stations in the Belgian Congo
and Brazil in preparation for his new assignment.

Bob Shaw is Chief Engineer of the Tube Department
of R.C.A., and their paramount concern is keeping ahead
of the television parade. He says it is a great business, chang-
ing rapidly and growing beyond anyone’s expectation. His
wife and he have four children, 3 girls and 1 boy. Three of
them have finished college and one is a sophomore at the
University of Vermont. Two of them are married and there
are four grandchildren.

Arthur M. Birdsall is practicing law in Belmar, New
Jersey, with offices at 714 Tenth Avenue. He has three
daughters now in college. He still sings in the churches in
his vicinity, as he did in the Presbyterian Church here when
he was a student.

Loring C. Kackley is Clerk of the Circuit Court of Clarke
County, Berryville, Virginia. He has been Trial Justice of
Clarke County since 1932.

1916

George D. (“Shorty”) Shore, member of the law firm
of McLeod & Shore, Sumter, South Carolina, reports that
he is still “making a living” in the practice of law and does
a little fishing on the side.

1917

Charles W. McNitt, M.D., is still practicing his profes-
sion in Reno, Nevada. He has one married daughter and
another graduating from junior college this year, and a son,
sophomore at Stanford. Address: 217 North Virginia Street,
Reno, Nevada.

Marion S. Sanders and his wife have recently completed
a log house down at Hungry Mother Park just three miles
from Marion, Virginia, and expect to be in it this summer
from June Ist until fall. He says: “Any and all members of
our class who are in this neighborhood are urged to drop
by and see us—and that is not baloney, we mean it. The
latch string is on the outside.” Address: 585 East Union
Street, Wytheville, Virginia.

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jackson R. Collins was a visitor on the campus in April.
He is still practicing law at 50 Church Street, New York
7, N.Y.

James A. Lee, after having served on the editorial staff
of one of the magazines of McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., in
New York for many years, was transferred to Houston,
Texas, last July 1. On this job he not only represents
Chemical Engineering, with which he had been associated
for many years, but is also connected with the company’s
other publications. He says it is great to be back South again.

Bill Burtner, Assistant Solicitor General, Department of
Labor, Washington, D.C., writes his Class Agent: “You
know it has been suggested that a general alumni reunion
be held every five years. I think that suggestion should be
given a great deal of thought by the Alumni Association
and by the University. I believe it would be very popular
with the alumni, and although it would be quite a task for
the University it would, I think, prove especially valuable
to the University in the long run.”

Robert B. McDougle has been practicing law at Parkers-
burg, West Virginia, since 1920, after service in World
War I. He served as Department Commander, American
Legion, 1926-27; President, West Virginia Bar Association,
1944-45; Member, West Virginia Judicial Council, 1945 to
date; and Republican State Chairman, 1948 to date. He mar-
ried Marion Harvey in 1921 and they have a married daugh-
ter and two grandchildren. Address: Citizens National Bank
Building, Parkersburg, W. Va.

R. Glenn Craig, M.D., Medico-Dental Building, 490 Post
Street, San Francisco, California, is continuing to practice
gynecology and is an associate professor of obstetrics and
gynecology.

1918

Adolph §S. Marx is still with the Mueller Company, the
largest department store in the section of Lake Charles,
Louisiana. They recently started an expansion program, add-
ing about 40,000 square feet of space in the store and doing
a considerable amount of interior and exterior moderniza-
tion. His older daughter is a junior at Vassar, the younger
daughter is still in high school.

John L. McChord, of the law firm of Calfee, Fogg,
McChord and Halter, retired as President of the Cleveland
Bar Association on May 2, and is glad to return to the
practice of law. Address: Union Commerce Building, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

Fulton W. Hoge, of the law firm of Williamson, Hoge
& Curry, 417 South Hill Street, Los Angeles 13, California,
writes there is nothing new to report. He has two children,
a boy eleven and a girl eighteen months younger. He reports
that the practice of law gets a bit tiresome at times, but
there is never a dull moment at home.

A. B. Bowman is a member of the law firm of Simmonds
and Bowman, 210-15 Sells Building, Johnson City, Tennes-
see. He married Miss Zelph McLeod in 1923 and they have
three daughters. Jane, the oldest, is secretary to the presi-
dent of Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Georgia; the second,
Susan, is teaching at Winnetka, Illinois; and the youngest,
Zelph, is a junior at Louisiana State. The two oldest girls
are going to Europe this summer.

J. Morton Eggleston is Sales Manager of the Robertson
Chemical Corporation of Norfolk, Virginia, fertilizer manu-

[ 20 |

   
   
     
   
    
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
    
   

facturers. He is married and has two children, J. Mortor
13, and Sarah Frances, 9.

W. V. Birchfield is practicing law in Marion, Vj
He reports a good local Alumni Association (Appalac}
with excellent attendance at annual meetings.

1919

Dr. Giles S. Terry is doing general practice, Ch:
Lafayette Apartments, Scarsdale, New York. His son,
has another year at Scarsdale High School, after whic
hopes he will go to Washington and Lee. His daughter
go to Sweet Briar, though that is a few years off.

W. F. Barron is still connected with the Coca
Bottling Company in Rome, Georgia. His daughter, Virg
graduated from Sweet Briar in 1947, is married and }j
in Bay, St. Louis, where her husband is doing graduate y
expecting to receive his Ph.D. degree this year. “
boasts of the fact that he is now a grandfather.

George T. Madison has been practicing law in Basi
and Monroe, Louisiana, since 1921 with the firm of Madi
Madison, Files & Shell, except for four years and a
absence in the Army during the last war, and has been
senior member of the firm since 1926. He has two daug
one of whom is married and the other a Junior at Newe
College in New Orleans. In addition to his law practi
has taken a great deal of interest in the educational sy
of Louisiana, and has been a member of the State Be
of Education since 1931 and president for the last three ye
He was recently elected President of the Louisiana §
Bar Association.

1922

James A. (Jimmie) Cranford is Vice-President of ©
Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, Florida. Jimmie,
48, will graduate from Duke Medical School in 1951,
his daughter will finish school in May.

1923

Thomas Jean Ellis has opened offices for the prac
of law at 600 Seventy-first Street, Miami Beach 41, Flo

1924

H. L. Shuey is President of Morganton Furniture
pany, Morganton, North Carolina.

Randolph G. Whittle is still City Attorney for Roane
Virginia. His oldest son and namesake is now a sophom
at Washington and Lee, and his other son expects to ef
the class of 1953.

1925

Thomas M. Harman is a member of the law firm
Jones, Day, Cockley & Reaves, 1759 Union Commet
Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio.

1926

Thomas P. Foley, 3916 West Franklin Street, Richme
21, Virginia, is still Assistant Vice-President of the St
Planters Bank and Trust Company, and teaches at
Evening School of Business Administration of the Univé
sity of Richmond. “Wife, Berta; daughter, Sue, 16; and s¢
Tommy, Jr., 13—all healthy.”

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

Burke Williamson is continuing to practice law in
Chicago, where he has been since he was graduated from
Northwestern University Law School. His brother, Jack A.
Williamson, ’30, is in the firm. He lives in one of the Chicago
suburbs, Lake Forest, with his wife and two daughters.
Address: 39 South LaSalle Street, Chicago.

Robert D. Holland is a member of the law firm of White,
Ryan & Holland, Citizens National Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia. He was with the Government for about ten years,
then went with an insurance company, and in 1946 returned
to Norfolk and joined his present firm. Address: 1030 N.
Texan Crescent, Norfolk 8, Virginia.

George B. Wilkinson is Southern Sales Manager for the
Lane Paper Company, Charlotte, North Carolina. Practically
all of his business career has been spent in Charlotte, with
the exception of five years in New York with the Chemical
Bank and Trust Company. He is a manufacturer’s agent
for products sold primarily to the textile trade. Address:
216 Johnston Building, Charlotte 2, N.C.

Arthur Garst is now President and owner of Jack Garst
& Son, Inc., having bought the business established by his
father in 1901. He is married and has five children, Annie,
a sophomore at Sweet Briar College; Jack, 2d, a freshman
at Washington and Lee; Arthur High, Jr., senior, Fishburne
Military School; and Frederick and Cardell, at home.

Ralph Daves, Manager of the State Theater in Lexington,
has presented to the University a set of reproductions of
American heritage documents from the Freedom Train,
which will be placed on public display in the McCormick
Library. The documents were presented on behalf of the
Warner Brothers Studio.

Henry M. Brown, formerly in the coal business which
was disrupted by Mr. John L. Lewis, has recently gone into
the wholesale glass business, specializing in hand-painted
(decorated) crystal glassware at Fairmont, West Virginia.

1928

T. B. Bryant, Jr., Senator, Orangeburg County, South
Carolina. He writes: “It was my pleasure to see ‘Skinny’
Williams in Columbia last week. He was there for the dedi-
cation of the new Law Building at the University of South
Carolina, and on Friday morning he visited the Supreme
Court along with Chief Justice Vanderbilt of the New Jersey
Supreme Court of Appeals. I did not mind arguing a case
before Justice Vanderbilt, but ‘Skinny’ Williams’ presence
made me nervous. Thank goodness, the case did not involve
the law of real property, otherwise I would really have
been in a stew.”

R. W. Jordan, Jr., is Vice-President and ‘Title Officer,
Lawyers Title Insurance Company, Richmond, Virginia,
having been with this company since leaving Washington
and Lee.

John L. Lancaster is a member of the law firm of Rob-
€rtson, Jackson, Payne, Lancaster & Walker, Republic Bank
Building, Dallas 1, Texas. He says there is not much news
about him—still practicing law and raising a family.

1929

Beverley Rhett is Editor, “The Horse,” journal of
American Remount Association, Otis Building, Washington
6, D.¢. Address: 3110 Elm Avenue, Baltimore 11, Maryland.

Allen Morgan is Executive Vice-President of the First
National Bank of Memphis, Tennessee. He says there is not
much change in his status except they now have three chil-
dren—two boys, 6 and 7, and a little girl, eighteen months old.

1930

S. R. Nickols has been engaged in the cotton business
under the firm name of S. R. Nickols & Company, Des Arc,
Arkansas. The firm is engaged in producing, financing, gin-
ning, warehousing, compressing, and merchandising cotton
in Eastern Arkansas points. He is married and has three
children—a son and two daughters, ages 12, 10 and 8.

Kenneth L. Keil is District Manager, The Penn Mutual
Life Insurance Company, 701 Myers Building, Springfield,
Illinois. He was recently elected to the First Vice-Presidency
of the Illinois State Association of Life Underwriters. He is
married and has a daughter, Margo, 9, and son, David, 5™.

William T. Stuchell, Jr., has been an attorney on the
legal staff of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in
New York for the past 11 years. During four years of this
time he was on active duty as an officer in the U.S. Naval
Reserve, serving in the United States, the Hawaiian and
Marianas area. He married Natalie Anne Hencken the day
before Pearl Harbor, and joined the Navy about two months
later. They now have two boys and a girl, and are living
in Darien, Connecticut, occupying a house they recently
built. Address: c/o Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
1 Madison Avenue, New York.

Herbert Jahncke is still Vice-President of Jahncke
Service, New Orleans, Louisiana. His oldest son, now 14,
had the pleasure of seeing the campus recently while taking
a bus trip with his classmates to see the Capitol and _ his-
torical points in this section of the country. He has three
boys, ages 14, 11 and 8, and it won’t be long before one of
them is a student at Washington and Lee.

W. T. Alsop is President of Pillans and Smith Company,
wholesale groceries, Ocala, Florida. He is married and has
two fine daughters, Katherine Fair, 10 years old, and Mary
Palmer, 2%.

Frank O. (Georgia) Evans, following graduation from
Washington and Lee, entered Mercer University Law School
on a fellowship and received his LL.B. in 1933. He is prac-
ticing law in Milledgeville, Georgia, with offices at 102-104
Kidd Building. He has been active in the Republican Party
in the state, and at present is General Counsel. He was a
Vice-Chairman of the Republican National Convention in
Philadelphia in 1948 and there seconded the nomination of
Governor Earl Warren for the Presidency. Incidentally, in
his seconding speech, he compared Governor Warren to
General Robert E. Lee. He understands it was the first
time that General Lee’s name had been used at a Republican
National Convention.

J. M. Byrd, Jr., after one year at Washington and Lee,
graduated from Business College and became Night Auditor
at the Homestead Hotel, Hot Springs, Virginia. He is now
proprietor of Hot Springs Cleaners, Hot Springs, Virginia.

1931

Walter H. Hoffman is a member of the law firm of
Breeden & Hoffman, National Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk, Virginia. He occasionally officiates at college foot-

[21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ball games throughout the South, although he fears he
should “stop that foolishness.”

Capt. Joseph C. Armour was re-elected President of the
Society of Military Accountants and Statisticians at its
annual meeting in April. He is a veteran of the North Africa
and Italian campaigns, wears the Bronze Star Medal, Army
Commendation Ribbon and The Order of the Crown of
Italy. He is at present Director of the Fiscal Division of
the Brooke Army Medical Center at Fort Sam Houston,
‘Texas.

Elbert Ernest Hall, Box 1400, Abilene, Texas, is married
and has three daughters. He is in the insurance business
(Cox-Hunter-Hall), and is “monkeying with some real estate
development.” He is planning to visit the campus in 1951 to
celebrate the 2lst anniversary of his graduation.

1933

John D. Copenhaver has been named a member of the
Board of Assessors, Roanoke, Virginia, to succeed Robert
Jj. Meybin, recently resigned. Address: Colonial Bank Build-
ing, Roanoke, Virginia.

Cy Painter, after serving for 15 years as Assistant Prin-
cipal and Athletic Director at Bedford High School, Bedford,
Virginia, is now Health and Physical Education teacher at
George Washington High School, Alexandria, Virginia. His
team came out second in the Group I football race for the
state championship, winning nine and losing one game. He
is cocahing the J. V. basketball team, and so far they have
won five and lost one game. Address: 304 Mansion Drive,
Alexandria, Virginia.

Vernon Brantley attended various other schools after
one year at Washington and Lee. He was married in 1938,
and he and his wife have been in Washington since 1939,
with the exception of 2% years in the Navy. His work is
with the U. S. Department of Labor. Address: 1350 G. Street,
S. E., Washington 3, D.C.

C. R. (Bob) Kaplan is with the Interstate Stores Com-
pany, Owensboro, Kentucky. He is married and has two
sons, ages 5 and 3.

Marshall Nuckols says in his class letter that the biggest
personal news he has is the addition to his family of a strap-
ping eight-pound boy, Geoffrey Hewitt, born December
30, 1949.

George Blatterman is still on his Kentucky farm, where
he raises hogs and cattle. He reads the Alumni Magazine
with interest, and says that “President Gaines is certainly
trying to meet today’s problems with vigor and thought.”

Lt. Col. W. Todd DeVan, Medical Corps, Station Hos-
pital, Fort Knox, Kentucky, expects to be out of the Army
next January, after ten years of service.

Blanchard Deale is President-Treasurer of Blanchard and
Turner, Inc., coal-fuel-hardware, 3410 High Street, Ports-
mouth, Virginia. He was recently elected to the Board of
Directors of the Portsmouth Chamber of Commerce. He
will attend the convention of Rotary International in June
as one of the two delegates from the Portsmouth Rotary
Club, of which he was recently elected Vice-President; and
also go to St. Louis to attend the American Retail Coal
Association Convention and complete his term as director.

[ 22 ]

   
   
 
 
   
  
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
   
  
   
    
   

Henry Foote is still in the yellow pine lumber by:
in Alexandria, Louisiana. The Footes have three boys
a baby girl, six years old. The oldest boy looks like a
prospect for the Washington and Lee basketball and b;
teams, and will be headed this way in the next fg
five years.

Homer G. Ray, Jr., is President of Georgia Peanut (
pany, Moultrie, Georgia, and was elected Chairman o
National Peanut Council in April.

1934

Thomas D. Anderson is Vice-President and Trust 0
with the Union National Bank, Houston 1, Texas. He
his wife were in Lexington last year for the Bicente
Celebration, and he was so much impressed with the gq
ing that he would like to see a definite plan of per
reunions instituted.

Layne Ford has been practicing law in Grafton,
Virginia, for over a year, having resigned his state jo
January, 1949. His father, with whom he is practicing,
been ill, and Layne and his mother and father recently
a 3,000-mile trip, lasting seven weeks, to Florida, stoppir
various places en route. They were in Lexington for one n

Alfred G. Dennison is Assistant Sales Manager,
Riverside Metal Company, Riverside, New Jersey. Add:
221 Linden Avenue, Riverton, N. J. |

Capt. Walter Christian Johnston, U.S. Army Air F
was a recent visitor to Lexington, en route to a new as
ment at 3904 Training Square, Camp Carson, Cole
Springs, Colorado. Permanent home address: 2616 Han
Avenue, Richmond 20, Virginia.

1935

Dr. C. A. Sauerbrun has been engaged in general m
cine in Orlando, Florida, since 1943 after graduating f
Kansas City College of Osteopathy and Surgery.

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins is still engaged in the practice
obstetrics and gynecology at 525 E. Mt. Airy Avenue, F
delphia 19, Pa. He will celebrate his 11th wedding anni
sary on June 10, and has two children, Judith, age 8,
Tommy, age 6.

Joseph A. Clemmer, Postoffice Inspector in Charlest
West Virginia, is credited with brilliant detective work
the conviction of a 50-year-old Negro found guilty Db
federal district court jury of using the mails to def
The defendant was sentenced to 12 years in the Atk
Penitentiary and fined $7,000. During the trial he was char
with forging the names of 40 school teachers living in W
Virginia and four other states in connection with obtain
money from small Midwestern loan companies.

1936

Al Durante is Press Head for the J. W. Thompson F
licity Services. The J. Walter Thompson agency was dé
nated the Best Individual Publicity Service in the 1949 p
for Fame, returned from ballots mailed to the Amefi
newspaper, magazine, and radio editors and columf
inviting them to designate the network and individual org
ization which rendered them the best publicity service @
ing the year.

 

1937

Larry Wilson, Jr., has been married four years and has
fine girls, Mary Draper, 3%, and Martha Davis, 2 years.
He is sales representative for Blue Bell, Inc., in the South-
stern territory. He travels a great deal, and finds the
Spann Directory, which he carries in his car, helpful in
Recking for names in various towns.

tw

Bob Radcliff is a Research Chemist in the duPont Lab-
oratory at Deepwater, New Jersey. He is married ; building
, new home; has two children; and is planning to have his
poy play football at Washington and Lee. Address: 238 N.
Main Stret, Woodstown, N. J.

J. Knox Tate, M.D., married Helen Tolley of Lexington
in Lee Chapel in 1941; graduated from Tulane University
School of Medicine in 1943; was on active duty in the Army
Medical Corps for two years, eighteen months of which
were spent on Guam; out of the Army in 1946; finished his
internship; and is now doing general practice in his home
town of Bolivar, Tennessee.

Cc. A. Butterworth, Jr., subsequent to his terminal leave
in 1946, was employed on the permanent staff of the Certi-
fied Public Accountant firm of Charles S. Rockey & Co., in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. However, in March 1949 he was
recalled to extended active duty and was on leave of absence
from this firm until February 1950. While he was in the
service this last time, his wife and son flew out to California
to take care of the “Rebel,” as some of the Yankees called
him. Charles Arthur Butterworth, III, “Butch” for short,
received a log book from the United Airlines signed by the
plane crew, as well as being taken up into the cockpit by
the captain of the plane when the latter found out his
mother was married to an officer of USAF. While the
“towhead” was in California, he also won a beauty contest.
Address: C. A. Butterworth, Jr., Postoffice Box 113,
Westville, New Jersey.

Bill Wilbur is teaching history at Muhlenberg College,
Allentown, Pennsylvania, and _ still plugging away at his
doctoral work.

Lew Williams is a technical salesman with Sumner
Chemical Company, Inc., a wholly-owned, independently
operated affiliate of Miles Laboratories (Alka Seltzer). They
are a small manufacturer of fairly esoteric organic chemicals
of interest to pharmaceutical manufacturers. He travels from
Boston to Richmond and as far west as Buffalo, which gives
him an opportunity to see many of his former friends and
Students. Address: 52 Wall Street, New York Di eee

James A. Blalock has been an attorney with the Trade
Practice Bureau of Federal Trade Commission for a little
Over a year, and has been working on the proceedings con-
cerning auto sales and finance rules—which has been rather
a hot matter. Address: 1760 Euclid, N.W., Washington

ae.

1938

Southgate Y. Hoyt and his captive pileated woodpecker,

o€0 (pronounced flee-oh), are featured in a recent issue
of LIFE magazine. Phloeo has lived for nine years with
Dr. Hoyt, an ornithologist at Cornell University, who is
devoting his life to studying woodpeckers and got his Ph.D.
©n a thesis on Phloeo. Phloeo is probably the only pileated
Woodpecker living in captivity. Next to the ivory-billed
Woodpecker, which is almost extinct, the pileated is the rarest
of the 51 kinds of woodpeckers in this country.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1939

Alan Buxton Hobbs was awarded the degree of Master
of Laws, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.,
on February 22, 1950. Address: 4518 South 36th Street,
Arlington, Virginia.

1940

Earl B. Morgan, Jr., has resigned his position as Adver-
tising and Promotion Manager of the Carpet Division of
James Lees and Sons Company as of March 10, to take an
account executive position with McCann-Erickson of New
York, advertising agency. His new address is: McCann-
Erickson, Inc., 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

Edwin J. Foltz, Agent in Charge of the Little Rock,
Arkansas, office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has
resigned to accept a position as Assistant Industrial Rela-
tions Director of the Pesco Division of the Borg-Warner
Corporation at Cleveland, Ohio, on April 10, 1950. Receiving
his LL.B. degree here in 1940, he practiced law in Virginia
before joining the FBI ten years ago. He is a member of
the bar in Arkansas, Virginia, and Georgia and has been
admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United
States. Address: c/o Pesco Products Division, Borg-Warner
Corporation, 24700 North Miles Road, Bedford, Ohio.

1941

Benton M. Wakefield, Jr., on December 1, 1949, was
elected Assistant Cashier of the First National Bank of
Memphis, Tennessee, having joined that institution on March
15, 1946, upon his return from duty in the Navy. Address:
2906 Poplar, Memphis, Tennessee.

Cecil Taylor was chief patron of a bill in the Virginia
Legislature to construct a memorial for Virginia veterans.
The Taylor House Bill, to provide a memorial building in
Richmond, was passed by the House on Saturday, March
4, 1950.

James Roger McConnell was named “Young Man of the
Year” by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of Mansfield,
Ohio, on March 4, 1950. A salesman and veteran of World
War II, he was recognized for his work in heading the
community fund drive in 1949 and with the Charter Com-
mission, of which he is a member. He is active in YMCA,
church and civic organizations.

1942

C. Lane Sartor, geologist with Barnsdell Oil Company,
has accepted a position as district geologist with Pam-Am
Southern Corporation, effective March 16, with offices in
the Commercial Bank Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.
Receiving his B.A. degree in geology here, he served nearly
four years in the Army Air Forces, with active service in
the Pacific theatre, leaving the service with the rank of
captain, and accepted employment in Shreveport with
Barnsdell.

George A. Woolfenden has accepted a position in the
advertising department of the Burroughs Adding Machine
Company in Detroit, Michigan. His wife is the former
Roberta Latture, daughter of Professor R. N. Latture of
the Washington and Lee faculty. Address: 543 Vinewood
Road, Birmingham, Michigan.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1943

Kenelm L. Shirk, Jr., is practicing law, with offices at
Room 220, 33 North Duke Street, Lancaster, Pa., and First
Floor, Rear Building, 11 West Main Street, Ephrata, Pa.
Home address: 345 New Holland Avenue, Lancaster, Pa.

James W. Funk has announced his candidacy for the
office of Prosecuting Attorney of Knox County, Indiana, in
the Democratic primary to be held on May 2, 1950. Fol-
lowing his service in the Army Air Corps as pilot of a B-25
in the China-Burma-India war theatre, he studied law here,
taking his senior year at Indiana University, from which
he received the LL.B. degree.

J. Tyler (Bud) Bowie is now with his uncle, G. Calvert
Bowie, Real Estate-Mortgages-Insurance, Suite 404-8 Wash-
ington Building, 16th and New York Avenue, Washington
5, D.C. Home address: 204 E. Thornapple Street, Chevy
Chase, Maryland.

1944

Frederick B. Rowe has been appointed Instructor in
Psychology, Emory University, Georgia, effective next
September.

Edward C. Waddington, Jr., started three months of
graduate work in Agriculture at Rutgers University last
October, and was employed with Seabrooks Forming Cor-
poration on March Ist. His work is in connection with con-
servation and care of the experimental plots. His work is
near enough his home to allow him to commute. Address:
White Oaks, Woodstown, New Jersey.

1945

W. F. (Bill) Searle left his billet as Instructor at the U. S.
Naval Academy in 1946. From that time until last summer,
he held several jobs on destroyers, and made a number of
cruises to Europe and around the Atlantic. His duties have
been very nearly all in engineering and damage control. In
June he was ordered to M.I. T. for post-graduate study in
naval architecture and marine engineering, where he will
be for three years, at which time he expects to receive the
master’s degree. He reports that “the course is, with the
exception of its nautical flavor, quite free from the Navy, no
uniforms, no duties, no exec.” He married Margaret Early
Jackson in 1945 and they have two daughters, Jane, three
and a half, and Mary, born October 24, 1950. Address: 133
Colonial Avenue, Waltham 54, Mass.

C. Richard Working is Dean of the Lower School, Christ-
church School, Christchurch, Virginia. He is also History
Headmaster and head coach at the school.

David L. Jones is Manager of Martin Brothers, a textile
mill in Lawrence, Massachusetts. They weave Saran plastic,
which is used for automobile seat covers and for the furni-
ture trade. Address: 130 Elm Street, Andover, Massachusetts.

Myron J. McKee, Jr., after service in the U.S. Navy,
went to Northwestern University where he received the
B.S. degree. He is now an Underwriter with the State Auto-
mobile Insurance Association, Indianapolis, Indiana. Address:
R. R. 2, Box 501, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Neal N. Herndon, Jr., is a student at Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary. In June he will be working full time as
the assistant to the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Cranford, New Jersey, a thriving organization of over

[ 24 |

   
    
    
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   

1600 members. He expects to be ordained in Jui > 10
is married and has two children. Present address! |. 4
ton Street, Princeton, N. J.

James Bentley Wayman spent four years in the
Air Force, a year in the Pacific as a navigator cn a
was married in 1945 and son born in 1948. For the
three years he has been with the Mead Sales Co. in @
cothie, Ohio, and at present is located in the New
office as salesman for this company (paper manufactyr
Address: 13 Manchester Road, Tuckahoe, New York.

Philip P. Page, after three years in the U.S, A
graduated from Cornell University, June 1947, with
B.C.E. degree. He is now a structural designer with
Stevenson & Value, Consulting Engineers, New York
N. Y. Address: 654 Bergen Avenue, Jersey City, N. J. _

Robert J. B. Mahon, Jr., has a new address, 118-D }
don Hills Apts., Haddonfield, N. J. He worked in New
as a Public Relations Representative for RCA Victor, tr;
ferred to the company’s general office to help in the ne
established Executive Development Division.

Guy E. Yaste, Jr., is Dodge-Plymouth Automobile D
at 123 W. Blount Street, Pensacola, Florida. He is a n
ber of the Exchange Club and Junior Chamber of Comme
and wrote that he planned to be married on May 20th
Miss Louise Brown, of Pensacola. :

John B. Atkins, Jr., after service with the Air Fe
graduated from Centenary College in 1947 and is ©
engaged in the oil business with his father. Address:
Centenary, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Richard E. Bartlebaugh, 533 Corona Ave., Dayte
Ohio, is in the Sales Promotion Department, Frigi¢
Division, General Motors Corporation. He was marrie¢
Jean Morner of Springfield, Ohio, in May 1948. He w
that Bill Richards (originally ’45, LL.B. ’48) and his
live in the next door apartment house, and complains ra
bitterly that the wives spend more time with each o
than they do with their husbands.

John Irland Wood is an advertising space salesman
The Conde Nast Publications (House & Garden Magazir
He has been with this organization since graduation.

Roy Johnson, Jr., after Army service, re-entered W
ington and Lee, graduating with the A.B. degree in 1$
He is now United State Public Health Representative
St. Louis County. Address: 145 N. Clay Ave., Fergus
Missouri. ;

1946

Dr. David Lewis has announced his return from serv
in the United States Army and the opening of his offi
for the practice of general dentistry at 3300 Liberty Heigh
Baltimore, Maryland.

Donald S. Hillman is now the Executive Director
NBC Television on the Believe It or Not show, and Fielk
Cook, *46, is the Director for J. Walter Thompson,
agency handling the program. Don also has been busy
Executive Director on the Robert Montgomery Lue
Strike Theatre as well as doing numerous special even
such as the Milton Berle Telethon for the Damon Run
Memorial Fund. Address: 1150 Park Avenue, New York, Né
York. He recently had an informal gathering of mem
bers of the Class of ’46 at his home. Among those presé

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

‘ Cook, Arthur Morris, James Ottignon, William
pyri nald Moxham, Harrison Kinney, Robbin Gates,
Dan Pinck, Webster McLeod, William Forrestel, and Tom
Mansel.

Nelson F. Newcomb, signed by the St. Louis Browns,
will play ball in the Browns’ Class B_ system at Wichita
Falls, Texas. This team is in the “Big State League” in Texas.
Nelson (called ‘““Newk” by his friends) has had a variety of
haseball experience, but says the playing experience he
gained at Duke University and Washington and Lee was
very valuable. He attended Duke while he was in the Navy
and Washington and Lee as a civilian, receiving his B.A.
degree here in 1948, after being a student here in °42-’43, and
again after the war in °47-’48. Home address: 215 Park
Street, Apt. B., Roselle, N. J.

were Field

1948

Edwin Page Preston, LL.B., ’48, was awarded the degree
ef Master of Laws from George Washington University,
Washington, D.C., on February 22, 1950. Home address:
1856 Oakwood Drive, Kingsport, Tennessee.

James A. Quisenberry has announced the opening of
offices for the general practice of law at 1404 G. Daniel
Building, Erie, Pennsylvania.

1949

Robert E. Lee, IV, great-grandson of General Robert E.
Lee, together with General U. S. Grant, III, Retired, grand-
son of the victorious General, were honor guests at Appo-
mattox Court House on Sunday, April 17. The occasion was
the dedication as a national shrine of the McLean House at
Appomattox, where the surrender of the Southern forces
took place. Dr. Douglas S$. Freeman, General Lee’s greatest
biographer, was the speaker for the occasion.

Billy Latture is working with Blue Bell, Inc., “World’s
Largest Producer of Work Clothes,” in their training pro-
gram for industrial engineers. He expects to be on the road
for some time, and asks that we keep his address at his home
in Lexington, 507 Jackson Avenue, as he is never away from
Lexington for more than a few weeks.

Jchn M. Parramore is taking a course in Pharmacy at
Butler University, and doing his apprenticeship work with
Mendt Brothers, druggists of Crown Point, Indiana. Address:
Ellendale Parkway, Crown Point, Indiana.

Ist Lt. Ossie D. Hamrick, Jr., is at Barksdale Air Force
Base, Louisiana, and is still trying to get the A. F. to send
him back to Washington and Lee to finish work for his
degree.

1950

Donald Dwight Hook has been appointed Instructor in
German at Emory University, Georgia, effective next
September.

In Memoriam

1879

John M. Glenn died April 20, 1950, at the age of 92.
Receiving the M.A. degree from Washington and Lee in
1879, he was awarded the honorary degree of LL.B. in 1907.
Serving as General Director of the Russell Sage Founda-
tion from 1907 to 1931, he was active in many church and

social organizations. His home was at 45 Park Avenue,

New York.
1882

George McChesney Craig died February 10, 1950, at
the home of his daughter, Mrs. C. A. Nelson, of Wantagh,
Long Island, N. Y.

1886

Dr. William J. Humphreys died November 10, 1949.
Connected with the U.S. Weather Bureau as Meteorological
Physicist for many years, he retired in 1935.

1888

Francis Williams McCluer died March 13, 1950. He was
buried in Falling Springs Churchyard, Natural Bridge,
Virginia.

1889

Carlisle Hepburn Gilkeson died March 15, 1950, at his

home in Fairfield, Virginia.

1891

William L. McCann died March 10, 1950, in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma.

1893

Marcus Meyer Silbernagel died November 20, 1949, at
the age of 73, in Shreveport, Louisiana.

1895

Dr. Thomas Jesse Jones died on January 5, 1950, after
a long illness, at his home in New York. Dr. Jones had
served as Director of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, 101 Park
Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Dr. John §S. Jenkins died in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, on
December 1, 1949. Dr. Jenkins was recently honored by
the University of Tennessee College of Medicine for 50
years of practice as an orthopedic surgeon at Pine Bluff’s
Davis Hospital, St. Vincent Hospital in Little Rock, and
Campbell’s Clinic in Memphis.

William Paxton died October 1, 1949. His home was in
Roanoke, Virginia.
1896
Antoine Louis Gex died November 28, 1949. His home
was in Ghent, Kentucky.

John T. L. Preston died April 17, 1950, from shock
resulting from a fire in his home on Washington Street in
Lexington. Mr. Preston, who had been ill for some time,
was not injured by the fire which did serious damage to the
second story and attic of the house before it was extinguished,
but died shortly thereafter in the home of Dr. and Mrs.
Francis P. Gaines, where he had been removed. Mr. Preston
was the last surviving member of his father’s family, long
connected with Lexington. His boyhood was spent in the
Presbyterian Manse here, where his father, Dr. Preston,
was pastor from 1883 to 1895. His grandfather, Col. J. T. L.
Preston, was the founder and first Superintendent of Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

1897

Judge Colin Neblett died May 8, 1950, from a cerebral
hemorrhage. He had served as State District Judge in New
Mexico and was so serving when appointed to the federal
bench in that state in 1917. He served nearly 32 years as
Federal Judge, retiring about two years ago. His home was
in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

Daniel Sheffey Hankla died March 3, 1950, at his home
in Louisa, in his 91st year.

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1902
Samuel W. Hairston died March 16, 1950. His home was
in Roanoke, Virginia.
1905
John L. Daniel died January 10, 1950. He served as Pro-
fessor and Head of the Department of Chemistry at Georgia
School of Technology before his retirement in 1948, and
was Dean of the Graduate School from 1940-1948. His home
was at 505 Church Street, Decatur, Georgia.

Wilbur Earnest MacClenny died March 3, 1950. His home

was in Suffolk, Virginia.
1906

Basil M. Manly died in Washington, D. C., on Thursday,
May 11, 1950. He was a native of Greenville, South Carolina.
He was a Vice-President of the Southern Natural Gas Com-
pany, and had served as Vice-Chairman and then as Chair-
man of the Federal Power Commission.

1909

Eugene Hutcheson Buchanan died February 26, 1950.
His home was in Brownsburg, Virginia.

1910

Basil G. Gildersleeve died at his home in Johnson City,
Tennessee, October 10, 1949.

James M. Carson died April 10, 1950, in Miami, Florida,
of a heart attack. Mr. Carson was the author of “Carson’s
Florida Common Law Pleadings and Practice,” practically
a textbook for lawyers. In addition to this book Mr. Carson
was the author of a book published only last month on
“Florida Laws of the Family—Marriage and Divorce,” which
has received high praise in the legal profession.

1912

Edward N. Atkinson died February 14, 1950, of a heart
attack. His home was in Asheville, North Carolina.

Pleas Weeks died February 20, 1950. He had been in
the drug store business in Dumas, Arkansas, for the past
20 years.

1913

Kelly J. Francis died February 7, 1950, at Stanford, Ken-
tucky. An outstanding athlete, he was selected by alumni
vote for end on the “All-Time Washington and Lee Football
Team.” He served Kentucky with distinction as a legislator
and a lawyer, and his community as a devoted, useful, ideal-
istic Christian gentleman.

1915

Peter Thomas Haizlip died at his home in Leaksville,
North Carolina, December 5, 1949.

1917

Landon Cabell Flournoy, Jr., died on March 17, 1950, in
Louisville, Kentucky.

1921
Louis David Cohn died in October 1949. His home was
in Monroe, Louisiana.

Stanton Bennett Hume died suddenly December 26, 1949,
at his home in Paint Lick, Kentucky.

1923

Alexander W. Quarrier died February 22, 1950, at his
home in Charleston, West Virginia.

[ 26 |

  
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
    
  
   
  

1924

Francis Bolling Kemp, Jr., died at his home in Reidaa
North Carolina, January 16, 1950.

1925

Bruce Draper, of Winter Garden, Florida, was slas
to death at his Buckhorn Springs citrus grove on May 5.3
by one of his employees, following an argument over
irrigation problem on Mr. Draper’s Buckhorn Springs gr,
which is located about 15 miles from Tampa. Mr. Dr:
had extensive grove holdings in the Limona district
Hillsborough County, and frequently made inspection ¢
of his property. _
1931 |

Turner Hearst Adams died February 13, 1950. His h
was at 2514 32nd Street, Lubbock, Texas.

1945

Elmer Bernard Tarleton died July 31, 1949, of pe
leaving his wife and son, Michael. Another son, Bruce,
born January 5, 1950, six months after his father’s de
His home was in East Orange, New Jersey. q

Marriages
1928

James Dozier Caldwell was married to Elizabeth Nor
Gleason on January 18, 1950, in Caracas, Venezuela.

1932

Bernard Spector was married to Shirley Rothman
May 5, 1950, at Westview Country Club, Miami, Flor

1936

T. Roland Thomas was married to Miss Kirke Melt
on June 10, 1950, in Chicago, Illinois.

1939

Charles W. Busby was married to Sally Ann O’B
on December 25, 1949, in Jackson, Mississippi. Mr. Bu
is associated with Mr. Ralph L. Landrum in the pra
of law in Jackson, Mississippi.

1941

Henry T. Martin was married to Jean Preston Riley
May 16, 1950, in Roanoke, Virginia.

Leland Hume Lord was married to Johanna De Vri
on March 21, 1950, in Sheboygan, Wisconsin.

1942

John Wessley Greene was married to Virginia Kather
Engleman, March 1, 1950, in Richmond, Virginia. They
make their home in Camden, South Carolina, where
Greene has a position with E. I. duPont de Nemours
Company, Inc. |

1945

William Hartell Toney was married to Elizabeth
Freeman on June 2, 1950, in Memphis, Tennessee.

William Corwin Mowris was married to Elizab
Burnside on April 8, 1950, in Nassau, Bahamas.

William M. Otter, Jr., was married to Miss Sarah Wi
on December 31, 1949. He is now an attorney with

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

a.

vn. L. R. B. stationed in Detroit, Michigan. Address: 8200

Epwerth Blvd., Detroit, Michigan.

Joseph M. Zamoiski was married to Suzanne Betty
Palkin on February 23, 1950, in Washington, D. C.

1946

Rodney M. Cook was married to Bettijo Hogan on April
15, 1950, in Atlanta, Georgia.

James Fielder Cook was married to Sarah Eden
Chamberlin on April 1, 1950, in Boston, Massachusetts.

Lieutenant Paul Joseph Bruno Murphy, Jr., was married
to Donna Marie Davis on February 27, 1950, in Little Rock,
Arkansas. They will make their home in Japan, where Lieu-
tenant Murphy will be stationed.

1947

Stanrod Tucker Carmichael was married to Margaret
Fairlie McLaughlin on June 3, 1950, in Bronxville, New York.

James Harris Sammons was married to Patricia Ann
Lekan, April 15, 1950, in St. Louis, Missouri.

1948

John William Craddock was married to Margaret Ellen
McCarley on April 5, 1950, in Amarillo, Texas.

1949

Robert Howell Carr, Jr., was married to Ruth Talbot
Grimes on April 15, 1950, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

William Keenan Stephenson was married to Martha
Laney Dickson on April 22, 1950, in Opelika, Alabama.

R. Leigh Smith was married to Virginia Genette on
February 14, 1950, in Baltimore, Maryland. They will make
their home in Roanoke, Virginia.

Births
1928

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Tayloe are the proud parents of
a son, Robert Bond Tayloe, born this spring. They have
two other children, a daughter, Kay, and a son, Howard, Jr.

1935

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick deRossett Strong are the parents
of a daughter, Lauren Ludlow, born February 2, 1950. The
Strongs have a six-year-old son, Michael.

Mr. and Mrs. John Meredith Graham are the parents of
a daughter, Frances Hill Graham, born December 14, 1949.
This is a happy addition to their family of three sons.

1938

Mr. and Mrs. George Francis Bauer, Jr., are the parents
of a daughter, Barbara Adair Bauer, born April 17, 1950.

Dr. and Mrs. A. Compton Broders are the parents of a
son, John Trusler Broders, born April 16, 1950.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hammett are the parents of a
daughter, Linda Ann Hammett, born September 23, 1949.
The Hammetts have another daughter, Carolyn Fleming
Hammett. James Hammett is practicing law in Shreveport,
Louisiana, and, in addition, is serving as Special Assistant
City Attorney. Address: Laird-Lane Building, Shreveport,
Louisiana.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred T. Bishop, Jr., are the parents of a
son, Lee Lewis, born January 29, 1950, in Louisville,
Kentucky.

Dr. and Mrs. Guy Otis Keller, Jr., are the parents of a
son, Thomas Guy, born in Rochester, New York, January
7, 1950.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Junger are the parents of a son,
John Squire, born March 2, 1950, in New York, N. Y.

Dr. and Mrs. Macy H. Rosenthal are the parents of a
second son, Stephen Douglas Rosenthal, born October 24,
1949. Dr. Rosenthal is completing his studies at the Medical
College of Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin S. Winter are the parents of a
third son, Douglas Steven, born April 1, 1950.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Campbell, Jr., are the parents
of a daughter, Elizabeth Julia, born February 1, 1950, in
Asheville, North Carolina.

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Stanley are the parents of a son,
John W., Jr., born May 4, 1950.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Wilcox, Jr., are the parents of
a daughter, Kitty Ellen, born February 24, 1950, at Oak
Ridge, Tennessee.

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis W. Shroyer, III, are the parents
of a son, Lewis W. Shroyer, IV, born April 29, 1950.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Duchossois are the parents of
a son, Richard Bruce, born February 1, 1950.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Burriss, III, are the proud parents
of a son, Andrew Robert Burriss, born February 13, 1950.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver W. McClintock are the parents of
a daughter, Mary Edith, born April 6, 1950.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Foster, Jr., are the parents of a son,
Floyd Eugene, III, born March 12, 1950.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae

4 j ; Pi a ~ es : 2 .
lt ag 05 RTE eaten — ye)
Ai Li nn iL INF Lig a Sing) jy 5

; fray
Fa \ Res a
> , 7 7 -

A AN ee. C7 :

- $ 4

Sy ‘ ee: F - o °
B. : or
i a

 

Now Available

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

WITH BICENTENNIAL BACK STAMP
Colors: Blue and Mulberry

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $18.00 per set

 

iii i
i eld

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

