oo
» Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

a

JULY, 1946

—@

 

a

 

 

 

 

Top Left—Representatives of oldest and youngest classes attending Alumni Luncheon, William M. McElwee, ’79, and Ryland

Dodson, 46; Top Right—Retiring Alumni Association President, John Drye, ’20, with incoming President, Tom Kirkpatrick,

13; Center—Crowd gathers for Memorial Service; Bottom Left—Cy Young, Alumni Secretary, with Judge Maurice A. Breck-

inridge, 02, Charles Glasgow, 09, and Walter McDonald, ’10; Bottom Right—Members of the Law Class of ’11 who returned
for their 35th Anniversary.

 

 

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap, | H A j | M N |
Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia, f
34 Peachtree

 

Baltimore—Louis L. Tignor, ‘32, Maryland
Trust Building

Birmingham—Ed Aull, Jr., '23, 1210 21st Place
South

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge Sale,
'24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer

noad, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, ‘38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte,—John L. Crist, °13, Box 1045

Cleveland—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union Com-
merce Building

Covington, Virginia—Carl V. Harris, '28 P.O.
Box

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C. T. Dawkins, ’09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miami, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Wathen Knebelkamp, ‘21, 701 Sun-
nyside Drive

Lynchburg—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., '30, Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, '31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—F. Gilbert Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jr., '29, Commercial Building, Shreveport,
Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, '37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Stuart Sanders, '31, Sanders Broth-
ers Paint Company

Roanoke—W. Courtney King, ‘21, 512 State &
City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—William C. Edwards, '32, 5142 West-
minster Place

Tri-State—Elliott Vawter, ‘09, First Hunting-
ton National Bank Building, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., °38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D.C.—Paul Brown, ‘41, Court
House Square, Arlington, Virginia

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

Published by

The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXI JULY, 1946

 

Editor...................... HARRY K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President..................THos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Vice-President. ...:........0006+. P. C. Wuittock, 1929
Secretary............... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
PROOIRTERE 85541... HER Dr. ReEiw Wutre, 1919

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun W. Drye, 1920 aa

P. C. Wut tock, 1929 = 's**
Tuos. S. KirKpaTtrick, 1913 me

Leon W. Hararis, 1915

Dr. RE Waite, 1919

Amos A. BoLen, 1937
LAURENCE W. WILson, 1910

 

Henry P. Jounston, 1929 — [fe

OUR COVERS:
FRONT—

Crowd Gathers to hear a Specialty Number by Ray McKinley

at the 1946 Final Ball
BACK—

A small group of the more than fifty members of the Class
of *43, who returned for Finals, at the Alumni Luncheon

» 1a *
a

ee

‘f+

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The President's Page

Every alumnus, I am sure, is by now familiar with the
principal fact of the current history of higher education—the
unprecedented number of applicants, particularly in colleges
for men. Over the nation as a whole, this number will prob-
ably exceed by forty per cent any previous group. On our
own campus, we have had ten times as many applications as
in any other single year.

x* * * * *

All colleges for men, so far as I am aware, are making
desperate efforts to meet this emergency, and many colleges
that have been exclusively for women are temporarily ad-
mitting boys. I do not see how the institutions could fail to
make heroic response to this opportunity, this immense need.
Our obligation to these boys compelled to take up arms in
defense of our country, a sense of justice for the younger boys
who having completed the preparatory program are now
entitled to their chance on the next level, awareness that our
country needs all the potential of service represented in this
great generation of boys—these motives and many others
stir the college people into new energies of helpfulness.

x* * * * *

Washington and Lee has felt compelled to share in the
expansion of educational opportunity. After making surveys
of all instructional facilities, and after enlisting every possible
aid in the way of housing, we have enlarged our numbers by
approximately 150 men, an increase of between 15 and 20
per cent. It will not be easy to serve this number, and we
are aware that special efforts must be made to safeguard
the more precious traditions of student life in a group thus
expanded. Yet there seems to be no other course open to an
institution established and dedicated for true service.

BR. Rs Mee eS

But when all of this had been done, the fact remains that
we have declined more applications, or preliminary inquiry
for applications, than in any ten years of our history com-
bined. We have declined many desirable boys, promising
boys, thoroughly deserving boys. Hundreds of these boys
reenforced their applications with letters of commendation,
letters from our leading alumni, from distinguished citizens,
from other personal friends of those of us on the campus.
We had reached our limit, however, and there was nothing

we could do.
x * * * x

It has been an embarrassing and indeed a painful busi-
ness, this matter of turning away boys who have every evi-
dence of merit, this writing of letters to generous friends ex-
plaining that we cannot accept the particular boy of their
interest. I would not have believed that a huge surplus of
applications could prove in this respect so distressing.

x * * * *

To the student body and to the alumni I have appealed
that they will use their most diplomatic influence to inter-

pret this whole situation. Even if there must be disappoint-
ment in the hearts of thousands of boys who wanted to come
here, there will not be, we pray, any misunderstanding or any

resentment.
Sey 6 Roe

The news pages of this issue will carry several announce-
ments of more than ordinary interest. About two of these
I offer a word of personal comment.

SO. 2. Se

There will be a change this year in the deanship. Dr.
Robert H. Tucker, having passed his seventieth birthday,
will retire from administrative work, though he will con-
tinue to offer courses in economics. Dr. Tucker has enriched
and strengthened this University. He has brought—in addi-
tion to strength of character and loftiness of ideal—an un-
faltering devotion, a singular capacity for clear and cogent
reasoning, the prestige of a fine influence, and the loveliest
spirit of cooperation. Washington and Lee is permanently in

his debt.
* * * *k *

The new dean, effective September 1947, will be Dr. James
G. Leyburn, now professor of sociology at Yale. Dr. Leyburn,
is of Lexington and Washington and Lee stock, though he
himself did undergraduate work at Trinity, when his father—
our honored alumnus—was pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Durham. In training and in scholastic alertness,
in administrative experience and in character, Dr. Leyburn
has every fitness for a task so important in the destiny of
Washington and Lee.

x * k * x

For the present session, Dr. L. J. Desha will serve as
Dean of the University. He needs no introduction to our
alumni group, for his connection with this institution goes
back—with brief interruptions—to about 1903. We are for-
tunate in having his services.

Bo BR Roe

As Director of the Bicentennial Program, Milton B.
Rogers, ’17, will bring us the force of a great personality, the
advantage of a wide and rich experience, and the charm of
broad influence. Just out of the army, where he won his com-
mission as colonel, Mr. Rogers was approached while he was
yet making up his mind as to the future; and purely as a
service to his Alma Mater—and, incidentally, to the bound-
less delight of all who know him and love Washington and
Lee—he accepted this significant assignment. From the days
of his Kentucky youth, through his responsibilities in two
wars, and through such business leadership as the Vige-pres-
idency of the United States Lines and then of the
Water-Works, Milton Rogers has been uncommonly success-
ful in achieving his business or professional purposes; he has
won, I think in almost unique fashion, the admiration and the
genuine love of all who have been thrown with him. He takes
office about the middle of August.

i ee ee ¢

President

.
{fir~rn, 7

 

 

Top Left—Student Body President John Fox reads the list of Washington and Lee Casualties of World War II at Memo-
rial Service—Left to right: Governor Tuck, ’21, Dr. Gaines, Lieutenant-Governor Pat Collins, ’20, Homer A. Holt, °18, Rev.
J. J. Murray; Top Right—Dr. Gaines greets Veteran Alumnus at President’s Reception, Earl Mattingly, ’25, at President’s
left—General Charles E. Kilbourne, Retiring Superintendent of V.M.I., is the other gentleman shown; Center—President Gaines
and Governor Tuck, ’21; Bottom Left—College Friendships at end of Alumni Figure at the Senior-Alumni Ball; Bottom
Right—George Wood, President of Finals, leads Final Ball figure with Miss Ruth Metzger, of Erie, Pennsylvania.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Victory Reunion, Finals, 1946

In World War II over one-third of the living alumni of
Washington and Lee were in the uniform of our country.
One hundred and thirty-one gave their lives in service. In
celebration of Victory and in memory of those who have
died, over four hundred alumni of the University assembled
on the campus for the one hundred and ninety-seventh Finals
on May 30, 31 and June 1.

The opening dance—the Senior-Alumni Ball—was held in
Doremus Gymnasium, with music by Ray McKinley. The
alumni figure was led by R. C. Wood, ’21, with Mrs. John
Mertz.

Friday—Alumni Day—saw probably the largest crowd of
alumni who have ever returned for Finals on the campus.
Meetings of the University and Alumni Boards of Trustees
were held in the morning, and at one o’clock the Alumni
Luncheon was served in the Dining Hall, overflowing to the
campus. Much interest was shown in the taking of pictures to
be used as part of the Sound-Color Motion Picture, to be
completed in the Spring of 1947. Enthusiastic greetings of re-
turning veterans whose last meeting had taken place on
some foreign battlefield, older men renewing acquaintance
with classmates and bringing each other up-to-date on events
of the past several years, since this was the first peace-time
celebration of Finals in five years, and pretty girls and hand-
some wives, made this a scene which will linger for a long
time in the memory of those present.

Adjourning to Washington College for the General Alumni
Meeting, John Drye, ’20, President of the Association, presid-
ing, presented to the University a portrait of Paul M. Penick,
LL.B., ’96, and Treasurer of the University, 1913-1940, the
gift of an anonymous alumnus. Dr. Francis P. Gaines, Pres-
ident of the University, accepted the portrait, which will
hang in the Treasurer’s Office, reading a memorial adopted
by the University Board of Trustees, at the time of Mr. Pe-
nick’s death. (Minutes of this meeting are published in full
on page 8).

The Band Concert, held in Doremus Gymnasium from
3:45 to 5:15, with music by Ray McKinley, was a delight-
fully pleasant interlude in a strenuous day.

At 5:30 an impressive memorial service for the one hun-
dred and thirty alumni of Washington and Lee who gave
their lives for their country in World War II, was held on
the campus immediately in front of Lee Chapel. Dr. Francis
P. Gaines in his tribute said: “We have come to confess our
obligations to all those who have died. Their memory will be
a treasure and an inspiration to all who may enter the Uni-
versity. They must not be forgotten.” The roster of names of
those killed was read by John Fox, president of the student
body. Invocation was pronounced by Dr. James J. Murray,
pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian Church.

As is always the case, the reception given by President
and Mrs. Gaines to the graduating classes, their parents,
alumni and visiting friends, was a brilliant affair. The old
house on the campus, once occupied by General Robert E.
Lee and his family, was beautifully decorated for the occas-
ion, and the gracious hospitality of Dr. and Mrs. Gaines, the
lovely young women who served the guests and the delicious
refreshments, combined to make this one of the outstanding
features of Finals.

During the evening several of the reuniting classes gave

a |

dinner-parties at hotels and restaurants, and members of
the faculty entertained in their homes.

The Final Ball, held in the elaborately decorated Doremus
Gymnasium, with Ray McKinley furnishing the music, was
led by George Wood with Miss Ruth Metzger.

The Baccalaureate sermon and conferring of degrees took
place in Lee Chapel at 11:00 a.m., Saturday, June 1.

Dr. William T. Hanzsche, graduate of Washington .and
Lee and now pastor of the Prospect Street Presbyterian
Church of Trenton, New Jersey, preached the Baccalaureate
sermon, stressing that expediency prevailing in the world
which is today reminiscent of the beginning of the Dark
Ages, demanded the rebuilding of moral foundations, thrift,
hard work, and the willingness to sacrifice one’s life if neces-
sary, in peacetime as well as war. He restated the five prin-
ciples of General Robert EK. Lee’s idea of education: that the
student be a gentleman, study faithfully, maintain high mor-
a! standards, remember his Creator and keep the peace.

President Gaines conferred two bachelor of law and fif-
teen bachelor of arts degrees. One graduate was his son,
Robert Gaines, recently discharged from the U.S. Navy
with the rank of Lieutenant (junior grade). Dr. Gaines also
conferred two honorary degrees: upon Dr. James Lewis
Howe, professor of chemistry emeritus, and historian of
Washington and Lee University, the doctor of science; and
the Rev. Lewis Armistead McMurray, Presbyterian mission-
ary and head of the Morrison Training School, Mutoto,
Belgian Congo, the degree of doctor of divinity.

Valedictorian for the class of 1946 was David Vance Guth-
rie, Jr., who stood first in his class and will return to the
University to do graduate work.

Class of 1906 Holds Reunion

On the evening of May 30, Jim Caskie, Frank Crawford,
Claude Light, Basil Manly, Ernest Roeser, Kelly Trimble,
and George Whip celebrated the 40th anniversary of the
class of 1906 at a dinner with the Deshas at their home on
the campus—well remembered by all present as “Dr. Currell’s
house.” Other guests were Mrs. Crawford, Mrs. Light, and
Miss Gwendolen Howe. Reminiscences—among other things—
flowed freely. Added stimulus was furnished*by Herman Mil-
ton who, though unable to be present, thoughtfully wired
and sent his autographed copies of the menu cards for the
original class banquet in 1906 and for the 30th reunion. Let-
ters or telegrams were received also from Claude Pobst, John
Eggleston, William Hoge, Buck Spindle, John McCulloch,
Walter Dunlap, and Henry Bandy.

All departed with expressions of keen appreciation to
the hosts and -firm resolves to promote and attend a> larger
gathering at the jubilee reunion in 1956.

Reunion, Law Class of 1911

Twelve members of the Law Class of 1911 banqueted
together at the Dutch Inn on the evening of May 31. Cy
Young and Dean Williams were local guests.

(Continued on page 10)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting

May 31, 1946

1. The meeting of the General Alumni Association, which
was held in the Washington College Chapel, was called to
order by John Drye, President. In behalf of the Alumni Board
of Trustees, he thanked the alumni for coming to the meet-
ing and remarked that it was the largest meeting of its kind
that he had attended.

2. Departing from the usual order of business, Mr. Drye
first asked alumni to register appreciation of the very great
gift which had been given anonymously by one of the alum-
ni—a portrait of Paul McNeel Penick, 1896, who served as
treasurer of the University from 1913 to 1940. Dr. Gaines ac-
cepted the portrait for the University of one, who, in his
words, “was so influential in so many phases of our life and
who was such a close, dear friend of ours.” He read to the
group the sentiments expressed by the University Board of
Trustees at the time of Mr. Penick’s passing, entered in the
minutes of the Board of Trustees.

3. The presentation of the Thomas Nelson Page Award
was made by Dr. Gaines to John Letcher Crist, Class of ’13,
by virtue of the outstanding work he had done in behalf of
the University and the Alumni Association during the past
year.

4. Dr. Gaines, in making a few general remarks before
the assemblage of alumni, expressed joy at the return of
commencement as a feature of life at Washington and Lee,
and the coming back of alumni, particularly the ladies they
bring with them. He commented on the opportunity to edu-
cate worthy boys, cager boys, which is more bright now
than ever before. The returning boys are mature and stead-
fast and their level of achievement is high. Dr. Gaines did
not minimize the immense problems that exist as to hous-
ing and taking care of the veterans’ wives, but added that
this was a part of the University’s privilege as well as a part
of its problems. He stressed that the main thing now is the
further planning for the great Bicentennial, in which the
cooperation of every alumnus will be needed. In conclusion, he
remarked that this institution must be immensely proud of
its past and must be loyal to every ideal, but still keep its
face forever to the future, safeguarding the trust that the past
has given.

5. On motion the reading of the minutes of the last meet-
ing was dispensed with.

6. An announcement was made by Dean Frank Gilliam,
who was extremely anxious to get the names of all men now
on the campus who received degrees while in absentia in the
Service. He asked for the names at the conclusion of the meet-
ing of any who might come in this category. These men were
to march with the academic procession with candidates for
degrees at commencement exercises on Saturday, June 1.

7. Mr. John W. Drye, President of the Alumni Associa-
tion, made his annual report which follows, in part: “We have
published the Alumni Magazine. We have run the Class Agent
Fund; this Fund represents the return on a substantial en-
dowment—placed at $600,000 or higher. We have let a con-
tract for the preparation of a motion picture in color, with
sound, of life at the University. It has been done after con-
siderable study. We believe that a picture of life at this Uni-
versity will be of substantial interest to those who have been
here and to those we hope will come. Also, in connection
with the Bicentennial, this movie should be of great use. A

jacket file for alumni has been installed that provides for the
individual record of every alumnus of this institution. We
need the cooperation of every alumnus in helping to build
up this record. The Alumni Association was responsible for
the ballot in connection with athletics that was submitted
last winter. We have contributed to the cost of Finals;
worked on reactivating our local chapters that were dis-
continued during the war; and otherwise carried on the af-
fairs of the Association after the traditional manner of such
able predecessors as Ki Williams and the men who pre-
ceded him.”

8. The Treasurer, Mr. P. C. Whitlock, in giving his re-
port, referred to the February, 1946, issue of the Alumni
Magazine. It was moved and seconded that this report be
approved and filed.

9. Mr. H. K. Young, Secretary, gave his report and it
was voted that this be incorporated into the minutes of the
meeting. (The Secretary’s report appears below).

10. The report of the Nominating Committee was made by
John L. Crist, 13, chairman. The other members of this com-
mittee were Milton Rogers, ’17, and D. Raymond Snively, ’23.
After several fitting remarks for those members whose terms
expired, Mr. Crist presented the names of the following
alumni to serve as members of the Alumni Board of Trustees:

Dr. Reid White, ’19—Lexington, Virginia

Laurence W. Wilson, ’10—Greensboro, North Carolina
Amos A. Bolen, ’34—Huntington, West Virginia
Henry P. Johnston, ’29—Birmingham, Alabama

Dr. Reid White was nominated for a term of one year to
fill his unexpired term. He served for two years before re-
signing to enter the Armed Forces. Messrs. Wilson, Bolen,
and Johnston were nominated for terms of three years each.
It was moved and carried that the nominations be closed
and Mr. Drye instructed the secretary to cast a ballot de-
claring Messrs. White, Wilson, Bolen, and Johnston elected
unanimously. The retiring members of the Board are: Ki
Williams, Joe Milner, and R. P. Hobson.

11. Mr. Crist spoke in appreciation of the fine job done
for the Alumni Association by John Drye. There was a
rising vote of thanks for his splendid work.

12. On motion the meeting adjourned.

Secretary's Report

It is customary at these annual meetings for the Alumni
Secretary to make a report of the preceding year’s work of
your Association. This being the first meeting of any size
since the annual meeting in May, 1942, I shall try to give you
briefly an outline of what has been accomplished during this
period.

In the fall of 1942, I was granted a leave of absence from
my duties here to accept a position with the government. I
returned in the fall of 1944. During that time your associa-
tion was without a secretary, the work being carried on most
efficiently under the guidance of Miss Mary Barclay, assisted
by Dean Gilliam. At this point may I express appreciation of
the excellent work done by your Alumni Board during this

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

period, and especially of the presidents, Roger Bear, Ki
Williams, and John Drye. These men have served most
faithfully during a time when they, as well as all of us, were
under heavy pressure.

At the beginning of the war there was set up in the
Alumni Office a Service File. This file was established in
order that we might have as complete a record as possible
of all Washington and Lee men in the service. Every item
in this connection that has come into the Alumni Office has
been entered in this file. It is not complete and we ask that
you give us, either direct or by mail, any information on our
service men, such as citations, decorations, etc. I am certain
that you will be interested in knowing that approximately
one-third of all living alumni were in some branch of the
armed services. It is estimated that at least another thous-
and alumni were serving our country in whole-time jobs in
a civilian capacity. Of the several thousands serving in the
armed forces, 130 were casualties. It is hoped that a “Liv-
ing Memorial” may be established at Washington and Lee
in the name cf each of these men who made the supreme sac-
rifice.

“eee, Oe ee

One project of your association, which should be reported,
is a picture of the front campus which was made and dis-
tributed to a select group of leading high and preparatory
schools throughout the country. This is a beautiful picture, in
color, and has been greatly admired by everyone who has
seen it, and should be most effective in attracting the atten-
tion of prospective students. Although this was a project of
your association, it was wholly financed by Joe Milner, 713, of
Gulfport, Mississippi, a member of the Alumni Board of
Trustees. The pictures presented to the various schools were
handsomely framed. We have many more copies, unframed,
which are available to alumni. If you are interested, stop by
the Alumni Office.

x ke * *k x

Notwithstanding labor and paper shortage, we have been
able to publish the Alumni Magazine regularly. However, one
issue per year was discontinued due to these shortages.

During the war the University published a News Letter,
primarily for the alumni in the service. However, it was
mailed through the Alumni Office to all alumni.

eR ae Oe

At the fall meeting of the Alumni Board of Trustees the
Secretary was authorized to set up a “Jacket File” in the
Alumni Office. The equipment for this file has been pur-
chased and installed. When completed, it will contain a jacket
and folder for every alumnus, with all information available
on each man. We urge you to send us newspaper clippings,
pictures, or anything that would be of interest on yourself
and other Washington and Lee men for this file. We are in-
terested in the minutest details. In years to come this file will
be of inestimable value.

: x * * *k

For some time there has been a persistent demand from
alumni for a good motion picture of the University. The
production of such a picture has now been authorized by the
Alumni Board, to be made by Mr. Charles Chapman, a pro-
fessional, of Evanston, Illinois, who has had much experience
in producing similar pictures of other institutions. The pic-
ture will be in color and accompanied by sound, and will take
approximately 25 minutes to exhibit. Work on this picture
was begun today and it should be completed and ready for
exhibition by next spring. It will be used for promotional and
alumni purposes.

During the period of the war very few of our alumni chap-
ters were active. Not only was this true of Washington and
Lee but of practically all colleges. One of the big under-
takings in the Alumni Office this year has been to reactivate
these chapters. I am happy to report to you that from April
1 to May 10 some thirty alumni meetings were held in
cities from Chicago to Miami and from San Antonio to New
York. The University has been represented at every one of
these gatherings by a speaker. We are deeply grateful to Dr.
Gaines for making exhaustive trips to address eighteen of
these meetings, and to members of the administration and
faculty who represented the University. We are also indebted
to the many officers and members of the local chapters who
cooperated so enthusiastically in the organization of these
meetings. Without exception, I believe that in the sixteen
years I have served as secretary of your association, I have
never attended more enthusiastic meetings. The same report
was brought back by the University representatives of meet-
ings which I was unable to attend.

* * * * *

Each year in the February issue of the Alumni Magazine
you are given a report of the previous year’s Alumni Fund,
and it is not my intention to dwell at length on this part of
the Alumni work. However, in my own opinion, it is the
most important part of all the work done by the Alumni
Office. From the reports you have received annually on the
Fund has shown a steady growth since its inception in 1923.
Fund has shown a steady growth since its inception in 1933.
In 1942 for the first time we passed the $10,000 mark—to be
exact, $10,150.61 was received from 1187 contributors. Last
year the fund received $23,855.51 from 1821 contributors,
which means that 19 per cent of all living alumni contributed.
There are no words with which I may adequately thank the
Class Agents for their unselfish service in making it possible
to conduct this annual campaign which now means so much
to the University and your association. I quote Dr. Gaines:
“It is by now a considerable factor of our operation. Last
vear’s fund might be thought of as the income on approxi-
mately $600,000 of endowment. This fund, moreover, is a
flexible one, reaching many needs that the regular University
income could not do. The average University budget is prac-
tically frozen. About nineteen out of every twenty dollars are
in the permanent commitments—salaries must be paid, coal
must be bought, insurance must be deposited, and the like.
The Alumni Fund makes possible, always with the concur-
ring judgment of your board, many new improvements, such
as the new Athletic Field, which we simply could not hope
for otherwise.” May I comment on this statement, that on
good authority, I know that the Army School for Special
Services, which was located on the campus during the war,
would not have been located here had it not have been for
the Alumni Intramural Field.

BK ROR ¥

We are now in the midst of the 1946 Alumni Fund Cam-
paign. This year your Board set our goal at $25,000. I am
sorry to have to report to you that at this stage we are short
of this goal and running some $3,000 behind a corresponding
period last year. However, the fact that last year 20 per cent
of all money and 20 per cent of all our contributions came from
young classes, i.e., from °39 to 45. These young boys were
most generous with us as they were receiving good pay as
commissioned officers. Practically all of them have since
been discharged from the services, many are back in school
and many starting on a business career where the pay is con-
siderably less remunerative. If we are to meet our goal, this
shortage will have to be made up by the members of the

Las]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

older classes. If you have not done so already, I urge you
to reply to your class agent’s letter, which I am sure you
have received by this time, and if possible, make your check

a generous one.
Bo oo hc

In the past, through the cooperation of its alumni, Wash-
ington and Lee has met every challenge; its future is briglit;
and there still remains an opportunity for the alumni to
sustain and support a Washington and Lee that will be more
fitted for its task.

HARRY K. (Cy) YOUNG

Alumni Secretary

Reunion, Law Class of 1911

(Continued from page 7)

Writing of the celebration, J. Tom Watson, Attorney
General of Florida, writes: “I think every man of the old
class present was proud of having been able to attend this
reunion and felt that it was a real worthwhile event for him.
I know these are my sentiments regarding it.

“The Dutch Inn gave us a splendid menu for our dinner
and we had a most enjoyable evening just talking about
things that we remembered which occurred during our law
school days, and some of the things that have happened to
different ones among us since. We, of course, found no lit-
tle pleasure in joking one another about the youthful or
non-youthful appearance of the person under discussion.
Some of us found false teeth less debilitating than bald heads
and not quite such prima facie evidence of increasing age and
inactivity. Others found avoirdupois to be a good substitute
for muscle and past agility because we enjoyed a little more
when we had more to put to rest. Some thought that gray
hairs didn’t stand for age necessarily, but in many cases wis-
dom and experience, and found much pleasure in comparing
possession thereof by themselves with the lack of such
possession by others. The little rhyme puts it—

King David and King Solomon

Led merry, merry lives

With their many, many concubines

And their many, many wives,

But at last old age o’ertook them

With its many, many qualms,—

T’was then King Solomon wrote the Proverbs
And King David wrote the Psalms.

“However, it was finally decided that this sentiment had
no real place among us because we had neither experienced
that which it portrayed in the way of living, nor had we
reached the stage where we had even thought of beginning
to substitute writing for active work and practice.”

Perry Will Return as Tennis Coach

Fred Perry, three times world’s tennis champion and
great English Davis Cup star, who later held the world’s
professional title, will return to Washington and Lee in Sep-
tember to resume his position as the Generals’ tennis coach.

During the National Professional Clay Courts Champion-
ships at the Country Club of Virginia in June, Perry, 37 years
old and recently discharged from the U.S. Army, was in-
terviewed over Richmond Radio Station WRVA by Mr. Hugh
Carlyle, well-known Old Dominion sports commentator.

In reply to an interrogation regarding his theories on
coaching collegiate tennis at Washington and Lee, Fred
passed the following statement, ad lib, over the air waves:

 

Fred Perry

 

“Some years ago I was asked if I would like to go there
and coach at Washington and Lee, so I did. Actually it was
for the months of April and May and again in September.
Now we at Washington and Lee have not gone in for the
big name tennis players in trying to get a tennis team that
can beat everyone else in the country. The way we felt
about it at the time was that we had one of the finest schools
in the country and if anyone wanted to go to a great school
to get a great education then.... While I was there I took
the same things. We have 12. courts, 6 of them are down in
the gully of clay, and then we have 6 up above on the hilltop
of a hard court material. The plan was that if we had 600 or
700 students we would far rather have 600 or 700 people play-
ing tennis for fun and learning something about the game
than have 6 men or 4 or 5 men who might comprise one of
the finest tennis teams in the country. We felt that by giv-
ing everybody a chance it would be much better for us in
the long run. And that’s exactly what we did. So I get on
my horse—Traveler, that is—and travel from court to court
and if anyone is interested enough to want to learn, I take
as much time as I can with each individual. From these ‘in-
terested’ lads we draw our varsity team to compete in inter-
collegiate competition.”

John L. Crist,'12, Receives Citation

“The Thomas Nelson Page Award for 1946 is, by vote of
the authorized committee, conferred upon a son of this
University who has manifested fidelity to every call re-
gardless of the degree of personal sacrifice represented, who
has displayed intelligence in anticipating Alma Mater’s op-
portunities, who has given tireless devotion alike in posts of
high responsibility and in the undramatic routines of service,
who has done all with the modesty of the Washington and
Lee gentleman, who has achieved the career and the character
that validate the aspirations of the University; I have plea-
sure in bestowing this award upon John Letcher Crist.”

| 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Chapter Meeting Notes

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

The Baltimore alumni chapter held a very enthusiastic
meeting at the Baltimore Country Club on the night of
April 26, with fifty, or more, alumni present.

Professor Almand Coleman of the School of Commerce,
and Cy Young, Alumni Secretary, spoke to the meeting.

The new officers elected were Lewis L. Tignor, 32, pres-
ident, and Philip Seraphine, ‘34, secretary-treasurer.

BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

A full complement of Birmingham alumni, many other
alumni from nearby cities, and a large group of high school
students were present at a dinner meeting on April 25 to
give warm welcome to President Gaines and to delight in
a sparkling and reminiscing talk which he offered. Several
alumni brought additional guests, wives or friends, with the
result that close to one hundred persons were seated in the
banquet hall of the Tutwiler Hotel.

President Gaines’ audience adaptability was put to severe
test by the mixed nature of those present but he rose easily
to the occasion to serve pleasant recollections and intimate
information to the alumni, to give to the high school grad-
uates an appealing picture of a great institution and to pre-
sent to the other guests a vivid picture of the problems of
college education on a national scale.

Ed Aull did a highly commendable work in arranging for
the attendance of the high school students. The major high
schools of the city were all represented by boys of high cal-
iber. There were fourteen from Phillips High School, six
from Ramsey High School, one from Woodlawn High School,
and one from Cleveland (Ala.) High. Colonel William J.
Rushton handled the duties of toastmaster most capably.

Among the alumni present were: Ed Aull; Charles C.
Blake; Benjamin C. Blake; Sam A. Bloch, Gadsden, Alabama;
Bester Brown; Darby H. Brown; Borden Burr; James H.
Bryan; Clifford Beasley, Jr.; R. D. Burnett; Robert H. Carr,
Jasper, Alabama; Joe B. Cooper; F. Y. Young, Tuskegee,
Alabama; Thomas W. Christopher, Tuscaloosa, Alabama;
J. V. Coe; Alex M. Clark; William Crittenden; Evans Dunn;
W. R. J. Dunn, Jr.; Sam Engelhardt, Montgomery, Ala-
bama; Harry M. Faull.

Others present were: W. Van Gilbert, Athens, Alabama;
J. M. Gunn, Montgomery, Alabama; Sam Hiden; J. F. Hen-
don; Courtney S. Henley; Walter Hood; William L. Hogue;
Archie W. Hill, Jr., Huntsville, Alabama; J. M. Hobbie, Jr.,
Montgomery, Alabama; Robert Hudson; Sorsby Jemison;
R. M. Jenkins; H. D. Leake; Charles Miller, Talladega, Ala-
bama; Frank M. Martin, Decatur, Alabama; William J.
Rushton; James S. Sutherland; Ed. M. Streit; P. A. Sellers,
Montgomery, Alabama; Edgar W. Stuart, Montgomery,
Alabama; Raymond W. Terry; James H. Willis; J. W.
Warner, Tuscaloosa, Alabama; and L. M. Winn.

HOUSTON, TEXAS

Washington and Lee alumni of Houston, Texas, held a
dinner meeting on May 1, at the River Oaks Country Club in
honor of Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President of the Univer-

sity. Melvin E. Kurth, B.A., °11, president of the local alumni
chapter, presided.

Dr. Gaines made a brief speech covering the wartime
history of the University and outlining its plans for the fu-
ture.

The following alumni were present: Jeb S. Darby, Paul
E. Daugherty, C. C. Geiselmann, Homer E. Henderson, John
D. Locke, A. M. Morrison, Jack S. Evans, “Buck” Bailey,
William R. Howell, and Thomas D. Anderson.

Also among those present were the wives of alumni, par-
ents of boys now in school and other friends of the Uni-
versity.

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

New York alumni met at the Hotel Pierre Roof Garden
on Friday evening, May 10, with Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines and Mrs. Gaines as guests of honor, with reception
and cocktails at 7:00 p.m.; dinner at 8:00 p.m., and dancing
until 1:00 a.m. The music was furnished by Stanley Melba’s
orchestra.

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Between forty and fifty Washington and Lee alumni at-
tended the banquet meeting of the local chapter of San An-
tonio alumni on May 2. Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines was
the principal speaker of the evening and brought an inspiring
message to those present. He outlined the history of the
University which observes its 200th anniversary in 1949. He
brought out the fact that all American colleges are facing
the greatest teacher shortage in history, when industry is
snatching many instructors, by offering salaries twice as
large as the schools can pay, and that for five years the na-
tion, geared for war, has not had opportunity to train teach-
ers. Dr. Gaines is seeking fellowships in honor of each of
the 126 students who lost their lives in World War II.

UPPER POTOMAC

The meeting was held at the Cumberland Country Club
on Friday, June 14, 1946, and we had as our guests, R. A.
Smith, Athletic Director; Art Lewis, Head Football Coach;
Walter L. Bowers, Head Coach, Alleghany High School,
Cumberland, Maryland, and several high school students
from the local high schools in the area. The following of-
ficers and members were also present: J. Goodloe Jackson,
president; William L. Wilson, Jr., secretary; John T. Fey,
treasurer; and Alex Sloan, historian; also James A. Black;
William Bruce; L. Leslie Helmer; William Torrington; Paul
D. Pickens; John W. McCluer; Clarence L. Stein and John
McBee.

Captain Dick and Art Lewis explained in detail the situa-
tion at the University and also gave some light upon the
future plans for varsity football, which meet with the approval
of the chapter. It was the opinion of the group that we try
to arrange to have one of the Alumni officers or members of
the faculty visit the organization at least once a year. The
minutes of the last meeting of the Alumni Council Associa-
tion were also read.

[ 11 |

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Faculty and Administrative Changes

Important changes in the faculty and administrative per-
sonnel recently announced are as follows:

Dr. Robert H. Tucker will retire from his position as Dean
of the University and professor cf Economics on August 31,
but will remain with the University as lecturer in Economics.

Dr. L. Jj. Desha, A.B. ’06, professor of Chemistry, will
serve as Dean of the University until September 1, 1947, when
he will be succeeded by Dr. James Graham Leyburn, now
professor of Sociology at Yale University.

Clayton Epes Williams, LL.B. °12, Dean of the
School, has acted in this posi-

Law

tion since the death of Dean
Moreland in 1944.
Dr. Livingston W. Smith,

A.B. 96, M.A., Ph.D., who has
been head of the Mathematics
Department since 1906, will be-
come professor emeritus, but
will continue with the univer-
sity as acting head of the
Mathematics Department next
year.

Dr. Kenneth E. Stevens,
professor of Biology and head
of the department, was assis-

tant professor of Biology at
Princeton, where he obtained
his doctorate, from 1927 to

1930. Captain James H. Star-
ling, recently returned from
the Pacific where he was on
duty with the army, has been
made Associate Professor of
Biology.

Dr. John F. Baxter, form-
erly of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity as director of freshman
Chemistry, has been appointed
associate professor of Chemis-
try. He succeeds Dr. Larkin H.
Farinholt, resigned, and is a
graduate of Bethany College
and Johns Hopkins University.

Dr. E. S. Gilreath, A.B., M.A.,
Ph.D., University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North

Carolina, has been appointed Assistant Professor of Chemis-
try.

Returned to the campus, after leave of absence during the
war, are: Dr. Reid White, University Physician; Magruder
Drake, Registrar; Dr. Ramon T. Johnson, Charles P. Light,
Charles R. McDowell and Dr. T. A. Smedley of the Law
School; A. R. Coleman, Dr. M. O. Phillips, Dr. Lewis K.
Johnston and Lewis W. Adams, of the School of Commerce;
Dr. Rowland W. Nelson, George Jackson, Dr. A. W. Moger,
R. B. Ewing and Dr. W. W. Pusey, of the Academic School.

James H. Stewart, recently discharged from the Navy
as Lieutenant Commander, has been appointed assistant pro-
fessor of Economics. A graduate of the University of Ken-
tucky, Mr. Stewart holds the A.B. and M.A. degrees. He
taught for six years at Klon College before entering the Navy,

 

Clayton Epes Williams, Dean of the School of Law

where he served for four years with the Naval Ordnance
sureau.

William A. Jenks, A.B. 39, is returning to the University
as instructor in History. After graduation from Washington
and Lee, Mr. Jenks studied two years at Columbia. He has
recently been discharged after three years service in the army.

Richard H. Shoemaker, B.S., A.M., has been appointed
Librarian of the University to succeed Foster E. Mohrhardt,
resigned. Mr. Shoemaker has been at Washington and Lee
since 1939 and was acting librarian from 1942 to 1945.

James L. Price, A.B. ’36,
whe served as a Chaplain with
the Navy during the war, has
been made director of religious
work, a post which has been
vacant since the beginning of
the war. He is a graduate of
Union Theological Seminary of
Richmond, Virginia.

Carlyle Lynch, Jr., A.B.,
M.A. 732, has been appointed

assistant professor of engin-
eering and superintendent of

buildings and grounds. Form-
erly on the faculty of the Lex-
ington High School and re-
cently discharged from _ the
Navy as a Lieutenant (j.g.).

Henry L. Ravenhorst, B.S.
35, recently released from
army service as a Captain, is
filling the newly created post
of administrator of housing
and management of the gov-
ernnment housing units now in
course of construction.

Expected to Return
in the Fall Are:

O. W. Riegel, Professor
and head of the Department of
Journalism, who was with the
Office of War Information and
is now American Representa-
tive in Budapest.

Dr. M. H. Stow, Professor
and head of the Department of Geology, who was with the
War Production Board and is now engaged in special re-
search at Princeton, New Jersey.

Dr. Mervyn Crobaugh, Associate Professor of Economics,
who is with O.P.A., Cleveland, Ohio.

R. W. Royston, Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.R., now stationed in Norfolk.

Dr. W. M. Hinton, Major, U.S. Army Reserve, returning
as Associate Professor of Education and Psychology.

Dr. John G. Varner, Assistant Professor of English, now
director of American-Venezulean Center, Carcacas, Venezuela.

With the return of the men just mentioned the faculty is
restored to its full pre-war strength, but owing to the ex-
pected increase in enrollment this fall, the administration is
now engaged in employing six additional instructors.

| 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Prof. Williams Now Law School Dean

Professor Clayton E. Williams, acting dean of the School
of Law since the death of Dean William H. Moreland in
March, 1944, became the school’s ninth dean on June 1.

After receiving a Bachelor of Law Degree at Washington
and Lee in 1912, Dean Williams was a member of the law
firm of Williams and Brother of Woodstock, his home town,
until 1919 when he was appointed associate professor here.
He served as master commissioner in chancery of the Cir-
cuit Court of Shenandoah County from 1913 to 1916 and as
commonwealth’s attorney from 1916 to 1919.

While a student at Washington and Lee he was president
of the senior law class, Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, a mem-
ber of the tennis team and mandolin and guitar club. He was
also elected to Omicron Delta Kappa.

Dean Williams, since he has been a member of the fac-
ulty, has served on several important state committees. He is
chairman of the section on legal education of the Virginia
State Bar Association, chairman of the committee on re-
statement of the law, and a member of the legal commission
for the improvement of the administration of justice in Vir-
ginia. He edited the third edition of “Burks on Pleading and
Practice,” which was written by Judge Martin P. Burks,
dean of the School of Law from 1903 to 1917.

Ten years ago, when the present Tucker Hall was com-
pleted, Dean Williams wrote in this magazine: “It would
seem that we are on the threshold of a new era of develop-
ment. What appeared to be a tragedy on the night of De-
cember 16, 1934 [the burning of the first Tucker Hall], was
but the beacon light summoning us to broader fields of en-
deavor.”’ Two years ago in the midst of war when the School
of Law had two students and three professors, Dean Wil-
liams’ prediction seemed questionable. Now operating on a
basis of three fifteen-week terms a year, the school has an
enrollment of 87 students this summer and next fall will
have 150. With all of its faculty returned from war service,
it is broadening its curriculum to include courses in adminis-
trative law, taxation, and trade regulation. “We will still stick
to the fundamentals of law, however,” Dean Williams as-
serted.

Dean Williams expresses deep satisfaction with the qual-
ity of the work now being done in the School of Law where
a very large percentage of students are veterans.

Dr. Tucker Retires as Dean

On September 1 of this year Dr. Robert H. Tucker re-
tires as Dean of the University and Professor of Economics.
It will be a pleasure to all, however, to know that Dr. Tucker
is not severing his connection with the University but will
continue with the title of “Lecturer,” teaching Public Finance
and a class in Elementary Economics.

Dr. Tucker has been Dean for sixteen years and in ad-
dition to the duties of that office has always done some teach-
ing. He was made Dean of the College in 1930, was acting
president of the University from January to July of that
year, and became Dean of the University in 1932. Dr. Tucker
came originally to Washington and Lee in 1915 from the
University of Wisconsin where he had done graduate work
and had been Graduate Assistant and Honorary Fellow in
Kconomics. At Washington and Lee he first served as As-
sociate Professor of Economics and Commerce.

The many alumni who have studied under him can at-
test to Dr. Tucker’s brilliance as a teacher; those who have
kept up with the progress of the college are aware of his
contributions as Dean, for the steady improvements in ad-

[1

,

d

mission requirements
and instructional
standards are largely
due to his efforts. In
spite of heavy work,
especially during the
past several years, it
is notable that Dr.
Tucker managed to
contribute frequently
to periodicals; and to
professional and _ ped-
agogical journals.

Dean Tucker's ed-
ucational background
was ideally suited for
the work he was to
do. Entering William
and Mary at a very
arly age, he contin-
ued his studies there
for six years, during
which he took the de-
grees of A.B. in 1893
and A.M. in 1897.
This Master’s degree
required a_particular-
ly thorough ground-
ing in the Liberal
Arts with special em-
phasis on history and languages and gave the future Dean and
economist a broad cultural background.

After graduation from William and Mary, Dr. Tucker
taught for a while in a military preparatory school in Dan-
ville, Kentucky, and then was called to Oklahoma A. and M.
as Associate Professor of German and English. Because there
was particular need of instruction in German there at the
time, Dr. Tucker taught chiefly in that field and moved up
rapidly to be full professor and, later, Dean of Science and
Literature. His experience in 1908 as Vice-President of the
Oklahoma College had a part in his decision to follow Eco-
nomics rather than German as his major study.

 

Dr. Robert H. Tucker

At the University of Wisconsin, which he entered as a
graduate student in 1908, he at first took German as his ma-
jor field but shifted over to Economics, the study to which
he has since contributed much both teacher and
research scholar.

In addition to his academic training, Dr. Tucker has had
another sort of preparation in the form of much practical
experience with a bearing on Economics and administrative
work. During the first World War, he left Washington and
Lee to work for the American Shipbuilding Company of
3runswick, Georgia, in connection with problems of em-
ployment and personnel. The next year, in 1919, he was ap-
pointed as chairman of the Industrial Commission of Virgin-
ia; then, during the next twenty-five years, was chairman or
member of four important state committees and commis-
concerned with taxation and the efhcient reorganiza-
tion of state, local, and county government. During the war
just concluded, he participated in the work of the Regional
Labor Board and the American Arbitration Association.
From his labors on these various commissions have
recommendations that have been far-reaching in their effects
on Virginia government and taxation. For Washington and
Lee students, this experience has also meant the privilege of
learning economic theory from a professor who is familiar
also with the practical economic problems at first hand.

sO as as

sions

come

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Marriages

1929
Alfred Boyd was married to Mary Day Brennan of Clarks-
ville and Memphis, Tennessee, on March 11, 1946, and is now
living at 1004 Apartment 4, Peabody Apartments, Memphis,
Tennessee.
1934
Captain William Burl Tyree was married to Anne Romano
on June 22, 1946, at St. Joseph’s Rectory, Belmont, Massa-
chusetts.
1937
Arch A. Sproul was married to Margaret Pratt of Coven-
try, England, in Grace Church, New York, on May 9, 1946.
William Cuttino Wilbur, Jr., was married to Martha
Hutchinson on June 14, 1946, at Evanston, Illinois.

1939

James Lewis Adrian Webb and Jeanne Eleanor DeHoff
were married June 6, 1946, in Baltimore, Maryland.

1940
John Spoor Broome was married to Patricia Montrose
Pritchard on July 20, 1946, in Jackson, Tennessee. At home
after August 1: Rancho Guadalasca, Oxford, California.

1941

William Alexander Boggs was married to Rose Marie
Krull on June 11, 1946, in Kansas City, Kansas.

1942
Charlton Thomas Fuller, Lieutenant U.S. Naval Reserve,
was married to Edyth Alexandra Huston on June 12, 1946.
William Francis Moffett, Jr., was married to Jean Page
Buxton on May 18, 1946, in Pohick Church, Lorton, Fairfax
County, Virginia.
1943
Hudson Colquhoun Millar, Jr., was married to Barbara
Jean Carpenter on June 1, 1946.

1946

Garland Sanderson Daniel, Jr., was married to Mary Alice
Lauck in Lee Chapel, Washington and Lee University, on
Saturday, June 8, 1946.

Births

1930
Mr. and Mrs. Philo Lindsey are the parents of a daughter
born June 7, 1946.
1939
Captain and Mrs. Charles Luther Guthrie, Jr., announce
the birth of a daughter, Nancy Elizabeth, on March 6, 1946.

1940

Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. F. A. Nichols announce the
birth of a son, Allen Rogers, on April 14, 1946.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Brooke Van de Water are the par-
ents of a son, Kenneth B., III, born April 25, 1946. Their
home is at 59 Lincoln Boulevard, Hempstead, Long Island,
New York.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Peel Didier are the parents of a son,
Charles D’Arcy Didier, born in Lexington, Virginia, on July
12, 1946. Mrs. Didier is the daughter of Dean and Mrs. Desha,
of the University.

Mr. and Mrs. George Woolfenden are the parents of a son,
David Raymond, bern April 18, 1946.

 

 

In Memoriam

1890
Charles Sloan Funkhouser died on May 20, 19406.

1893

Plez M. Kistler died at his home in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, in January, 1946.

1894

Judge Aubrey E. Strode died at his home in Kenmore,
Amherst County, Virginia, on May 17, 1946, after a long ill-
ness.

1896

Frank J. Fallon, founder of “Fallon, Florist,” Roanoke,
Virginia, died of a heart attack on April 13, 1946.

Henry Hitt Larimore died July 5, 1946. Mr. Larimore was
General Attorney and Interstate Commerce Counsel for the
Missouri Pacific Railroad.

1898

James McDowell Johnstone died at his home in Lexing-
ton, Virginia, April 28, 1946.

1899

Leland Coppick Speers died of a heart attack in his home
at 1723 Riggs Place, N.W., Washington, D. C., June 24, 1946.

1904
William Webb Bays died in Washington, D. C., on April
8, 1940.
1908

William Henry Jackson died on May 1, 1946, of a heart
attack in Richmond, Virginia, while on his way home from
a business trip to Washington, D.C. He was a member of
the law firm of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson,
of Tampa, Florida. Three of the members of this firm were
Washington and Lee graduates, Kenneth I. McKay, LL.B.
04, (died, August, 1945), Howard P. Macfarlane, LL.B. 713,
and Mr. Jackson, LL.B. 08.

1909
Charles Benedict Bagley of Chattanooga, Tennessee, died
at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, June 17, 1946.
1912

Harvey Gunn Fannin died December 4, 1945, of a heart
attack, on St. Vincent Island, Florida, while hunting. His
home was in Panama City, Florida.

1927
Peter Cameron Gearhart of Springhill, Alabama, died on
March 11, 1946.
1928
Peter A. Leonidas died December 4, 1945, after a year’s
illness.
1936
Charles Willis Wilkerson of Vicksburg, Mississippi, died
of pneumonia on June 28, 1946.

[ 14 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1892

 

Rees Turpin, of the law
firm of Turpin, Behrendt and
Searing, New York Life
Building, Kansas City, Mis-
souri, began the practice of
law in Kansas City in No-
vember, 1892. He has had
offices in the same building
ever since that time.

1893
George C. Martin, Keo,

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters
to your Class Agent this year.

him and that he is promptly
taken care of.

1903

Thomas Ball, Title Insur-
ance Building, Los Angeles,
California, writes his class
agent as follows: “I note
from your former letter that
you find being a grandfather
a great honor. That is as
it should be, especially to

 

 

 

Arkansas, remembers exact-

ly how his Class Agent, B. A. Judd, looked fifty years ago,
but doubts if he would recognize him now from that likeness.
He sends his best regards to all the members of his class.

1895

John P. Walker, Class Agent for 1895, writes that he re-
tired from Government Service on January 1, of this year,
with 44 years of service to his credit. Mr. Walker has been
with the United States General Land Office at Boise, Idaho.

1896

Richard W. Flournoy, for the past six months, has been
Acting Legal Advisor of the Department of State, with a
multiplicity of problems referred to his office.

1899

Harry St. G. T. Carmichael says that “After twenty-five
years with the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company, as Vice-
President and General Manager of Production, I am still
going strong and at the present moment, am busily engaged
in rebuilding and electrifying cur plant, which I myself built
in 1921. | am hoping to wear this one out and build another
one twenty-five years hence.” He expects to have two sons in
Washington and Lee this fall, the older, Stan, who left school
here on the point of entering his Junior year,
and just returned from Japan after 40 months
in the Air Corps, and the younger, Johnnie,
who will enter as a freshman.

1902

A Correction and an Apology

On page 21 of the May issue of the Alumni
Magazine the name of the class agent for 1902,
Volney M. Brown, was inadvertently substi-
tuted for that of Dr. W. T. Ellis. The note
should have read as follows: Dr. W. T. Ellis
has been practicing medicine in Philadelphia
for about forty years, the last thirty-five in the »
Department of Public Safety as Surgeon, and
promises if any of his class should meet with
a mishap in Philadelphia he will see that the wil
cloak of the Department is wrapped around

 

 

one who is prosecuting an
active campaign against sin. May you be successful in the
campaign and pass it on to your grandson to continue the
good work.”

Stuart Chevalier, member of the law firm of Miller, Che-
valier, Peeler & Wilson, Title Insurance Building, Los Ange-
les, California, author of “War’s End and After,” has a
manuscript in the hands of his publishers, which may appear
about next September. This book deals with the United Na-
tions Charter and related questions. His wife is the author
of “Drivin’ Woman.”

Dr. D. R. Phelps has been troubled with arthritis and spent
a month in Florida, living in the sun “in almost his birthday
clothes” and returned without a rheumatic pain. Address: 809
Church Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

William J. Turner, writing his class agent, says: “While
I know full well that I didn’t get all I should out of my four
years at Washington and Lee, I feel that I acquired a back-
ground of honor and honesty and respect for the rights of
others which has been of more value to me than any formal
education which I tried to absorb there or elsewhere.” His
elder son was released from the Navy in January as a Lieuten-
ant (senior grade) after three years of submarine service in
the Pacific. His younger son is a Staff Sergeant with an En-
gineer Combat Battalion in Germany, but hopes to be dis-
charged within a short time. Address: Room 5512, 70 Pine
Street, New York 5, New York.

John W. Warner, M.D.,
N.W., Washington, D.C., recently had a visit
from his old friend and classmate, Dewey
Cooke, their first sight of each other in 44
years. He writes his class agent, Cary Blain:
“You do have the faculty of finding the most
unheard of places to live in. I shall ask my
friend at the Geographical Society to locate
Circleville, West Virginia, for me if possible,
and failing this, Mr. J. Edgar Hoover happens
to be a very good friend of mine, so I may
enlist the services of the FBI.”

1835 Eve Street,

R. A. Ruff, writing from the coal mining
district of Elkhorn, West Virginia, says they
are in the midst of a real man-sized strike. He
says: “We won the war by producing an
enormous amount of coal, and now we are
not able to ship a single pound. A funny and

“al

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 
   

OS .

:

\

Please tell me just where is Circle-

pathetic world, this.
ville. I am in the mountains of West Virginia myself and may
be able to trail you down one of these days.”

Rev. John M. B. Gill was a recent visitor to Lexington.
He spent 15 years as a missionary of the Episcopal Church in
China, and later 13 years as Rector of the Episcopal Church
in Petersburg, Virginia. Since December, 1944, he has been
acting as Executive Secretary for the Missionary District of
Eastern Oregon, Pendleton, Oregon, but expects to return
shortly to his regular work at Lakeview, Oregon. He writes;
“After forty-three years as an alumnus of Washington and
Lee, I still look upon my time there as the happiest and
most profitable of my life. This land of ours has, I am sure,
no stronger bulwark of her fundamental ideals than the spirit
which the old University gives to all who appreciate the op-
portunities she affords her students. Wherever I am and
whatever I am doing, W & L will always be in my thoughts
and in my heart.”

1904

James W. Harman is practicing law at Tazewell, Virginia.
His two sons, James W. Harman, ’44, and Samuel Laird Har-
man, ’46, entered the Army from Washington and Lee in Feb-
ruary, 1943. One was with the Air Force in India and the
other served in North Africa, Italy and France. In February
of this year they re-entered Washington and Lee.

1905

Robert A. Lapsley, Jr., is Pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Roanoke, Virginia. He says; “I have such pleasant
memories of my four years at Washington and Lee and am
very proud of being a member of the Class of 1905. IL wish
we had kept a closer association with one another.”

Ee. W. Kelly is with the Central Insurance Agency, In-
rporated, Bristol, Virginia. He would like to have a re-
“nion of the members of his class.

1906
: Harvey L. Handley, Highway Engineer,
U.S. Public Roads Administration, says there

is no change in his status since last year, ex-
cept that his sen, Harvey L. Handley, Jr., ’39,
is now back from the wars, and that Harvey
L., III, is the pride and joy of his grandad. Not
more so than the other three grandchildren if
he could see them from time to time, but his
daughter lives in Honolulu with her brood.
Address: 7419 Terrace Avenue, Kansas City 5,
Missouri.

John N. Osburn, M.D., 1135 Pacific Mutual
Ruilding, Los Angeles, California, after grad-
uating from medical school, practiced seven
years in Martinsburg, West Virginia, was with
the U.S. Navy in World War I, 1917-20, and
then settled in Los Angeles. He says that med-
icine has been good to him although he has
worked hard.

“Jimmie” Caskie regrets his receding youth
but says he is in excellent health and still able
to get around the golf course with a mediocre
score and without too much weariness. He was
present for the meeting of the University Board

. of Trustees at Finals.

Ira T. Ritenour, Pendroy, Montana, says he is still operat-
ing his 960 acre farm with the assistance of his two daughters,
since other help is hard to get and very unsatisfactory.

Henry C. Tillman, Attorney, First National Bank Build-
ing, Tampa, Florida, says that nothing of special interest has
happened to him during the past year except that his son
and son-in-law have both returned from the war without a
scratch, for which he is very grateful.

Brent E. Clark, after spending two years in Kentucky and
Old Mexico, went to Oklahoma in 1908. He says he is very
happy there with his Oklahoma wife, three children and two
erandchildren. His time is taken up in real estate, hotel op-
eration and a long time connection with the State Highway
Department, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Claude P. Light leads a busy and useful life with many
varied activities of work and service in Parkersburg, West
Virginia. He is Commissioner in Chancery, active in build-
ing the Wood County Airport where transcontinental airways
will be cperating on a regular schedule in a short time, Boy
Scout Council and Red Cross, and President of the Y.M.C.A.
He is married and lives at 916 Juliana Street, Parkersburg,
West Virginia.

Richard B. Spindle is Judge of the Corporation Court of
Norfolk, Virginia. His son, Richard B., Jr., now returned
from service with the Navy, took his A. B. degree at Wash-
ington and Lee in °42, and is at present a student in the Law
School here.

John E. Scott, Route 1, Box 30-A, Prattville, Alabama, is
happy that his son and son-in-law are safely back from over-
seas service in the war.

Basil Manly, during the past year, resigned the chair-
manship of the Federal Power Commission, of which he had
been a member thirteen years, and is now Vice-President and
Director of Southern Natural Gas Company, Birmingham,

| 16 |

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alabama. He spends part of his time in Birmingham, part in
Washington and part in New York, and still retains his resi-
dence in Washington at 5059 Sedgwick Street, N. W.

1907

Bill Lord is teaching mathematics at Woodberry Forest
School. Woodberry Forest, Virginia. He writes that he has
been there thirty years now, and still likes it.... “in the
school business one’s contacts with youth help him to grow
old gracefully, but I can’t get away from the fact that I am

growing old.”

Martin S. McDonouzh (Mac) is still practicing law in
Iron River, Michigan. His daughter graduated from the Uni-
versity of Alabama this June.

Dr. W. B. Newell is practicing medicine in Enid, Okla-
homa. He was back on the campus in 1944, when the Army
School for Personnel Services was in full swing, and natur-
ally found it very different from conditions when he was here
in school.

J. M. Sapp is practicing law, with his two sons as part-
ners, in Panama City, Florida, where he has been since 1912.
He says: “My thoughts often go back to old Washington and
Lee—l think of our friends and associates of those pleasant
days we spent together there.”

H. M. (Monk) Moomaw is practicing law in Roanoke,
Virginia, with offices in the Colonial Bank Building. He has
been sticking close to the law but in the Fall, except during
the war, gets to see several football games.

Dr. Donald W. M. MacCluer is Minister of the Rose City
Presbyterian Church, Portland, Oregon. He says Portland is
over-crowded and the parking situation is bad, but he would
not mind these people living in Portland if they did not in-
sist on fishing. He likes people—some of them—but when
he gets on a trout stream he thinks a lot more of fish than he
does of people. Thinks he may have to head to

Alaska.

 

1908

William S. Graham, 604 Citizens Bank Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia, is grateful that the mis-
erable war is over and his two sons have re-
turned from it safely. Like so many of our
other alumni he says he prefers to read about
others than to write about himself.

Robert Glass is still with the Lynchburg
News, Lynchburg, Virginia, after nearly thirty
years, and reports that things are beginning to
eet on an even keel after the hectic years of
the war.

Abe Somerville, Major in the Contact Divi-
sion of the Air Corps, after July 1, expects to
go to New Orleans, Louisiana, to be with the
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York
with offices at 305 Hibernia Bank Building, and
was interested in making contact with his col-
lege friends, R. C. Milling, Fort Pipes, and

other alumni there.

William F. Riser writes his class agent that
he lives on the highway, which is now paved
from Eagle Pass to Saltillo, at 131 kilometers
from Eagle Pass. “From November to Jan-

-

uary bass fishing in this district is surpassed by only a few
places on the continent.” Home: Agujita Coah, Mexico.

H. R. Mahler, Superintendant of Schools, Thomasville,
Georgia, writes that he attended the meeting of the Southern
Association of Colleges in Memphis during the month of
March, and that in his opinion, Dr. Gaines made the best ad-
dress of the whole convention. He says; “It is gratifying to
know that Washington and Lee still stands for the best in
high ideals and in living.””’ He had two sons in the Navy, one
of them has been discharged and the other is still in service.
His most important news is that two grand-children have
been added to the family during the past year, making a total
of seven.

W. M. Paxton, Civil Engineer, Florence, Alabama, writes
that his daughter, Jean, graduated from Randolph-Macon
Womans College, Lynchburg, in 1945, and will be married
in the early fall. His son, Billy, is still in the Navy, but hopes
to be released before long.

Richard W. Hynson and his 20-year old son, who has just
returned from the Philippines, were recent visitors to the
campus. Richard, Jr., will enter the freshman class at Wash-
ington and Lee in September.

Harry W. Gassman, 6432 Kennedy, Cincinnati 13, Ohio.
His daughter, Lela Grace, is a First Lieutenant in the Army
Nurse Corps and now in this country after 18 months over-
seas. She is married and living in California. He is still teach-
ing at Walnut Hills High School, where he has been for the
past twenty-five years.

Charles L. Syron, 3502 Lindenwood, Dallas, Texas, re-
ports on a fine alumni meeting in Dallas at which Dr. Gaines
made a most interesting talk. His daughter, Rosanne, gradu-
ated from college last year, which reminds him of the pas-
sage of time.

Peyton Hobson has recently made some changes in his
law office in Pikeville, Kentucky. His new partner, Mr. Henry

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Scott, is a graduate of Michigan Law School, and practiced
in Pikeville for a number of years before going into the Navy.
Mr. Wine, who is also in the firm, served in the infantry in
North Africa, Italy and Germany. His son Peyton, Jr., 1s
now in Okinawa, but was not there during the time it was
a hot spot. His youngest son has returned from the war and
has re-entered V.P.I. His daughter is at Centre College. He
says: “General Lee was an old soldier. Our University was
built around his name and on the foundation which he laid.
It can pay part of the debt it owes to him by being especially
anxious to give unusual consideration to the young fighting
men of own generation.”

1909

W. E. Moreland, M.D., Powhatan, Louisiana, has a large
family circle including a wife, 4 children, 5 grandchildren, 3
in-laws and his mother, all in or near his community.

C. Irving Carey is a member of the law firm of Carey and
Harrison, Florida National Bank Building, St. Petersburg,
Florida. Two of his sons are now released from military ser-
vice and a third son is still in the Navy. The youngest is in
Junior College.

Melvin E. Cruser, Attorney-at-Law, National Bank of
Commerce Building, Norfolk, Virginia, reports that his three
have been released from the service. His eldest
Melvin E., Jr., B.A. ’39, is teaching at St. Christophers School,
Richmond, Virginia.

sons son,

Judge Daniel K. Sadler has recently been re-elected for his
third eight-year term as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of New Mexico.

David R. Dunham is practicing law in St. Augustine, Flor-
ida. He has recently had an operation from which he is re-
covering satisfactorily.

Reuben Ragland is a member of the law firm of Ragland,
Kurz & Layton, Consolidated Building, Jacksonville 2, Flor-

ida. He writes that there is no particular news
except that his family suffered no casualties
during the war and are all in good health.

David R. Dunham is practicing law in St.
Augustine, Florida. He has recently had an
operation from which he is recovering satis-
factorily.

1910

Lieutenant Colonel Albert S. McCown, in
charge of San Francisco Port of Embarkation
Dispensary, has been relieved of his duties and
is preparing for his forthcoming separation
from the Army, which he has served since
October, 1943. Before going into the service
Colonel McCown was Medical Director for
the American Red Cross.

1911

Frank C. Bedinger, Attorney-at-Law, Boyd-
ton, Virginia, writes that his son, Frank, Jr.,
returned from overseas, is now discharged from
the service and will practice law in Boydton,
Virginia.

Ben P. Ainswerth has recently returned to
his home in Lexington, after spending the win-
ter in Florida.

1912

Dr. Frank R. Ruff is still at the Fresno Community Hos-
pital, Fresno, California. His son has returned from the war.
His education was interrupted and his father would like to
have him take an A. B. degree from Washington and Lee.

Wallace Palmer Willson, who was in China for many
years in the importing business, was on his way home when
the war broke in 1941; was interned in Manila in Santa Tomas
and later in Los approximately twenty-one
months. returned on the Gripsholm in December 1943. He
writes his class agent that he is returning to Shanghai, China,
to resume his business. Meanwhile his permanent address 1s
312 Berkeley Place, Staunton, Virginia.

Banos, for

Leonard B. Ranson, 1109 Mercantile Trust Building,
Jaltimore, Maryland, says he has been busy rebuilding his
Life Insurance District and now has close to $1,000,000 Or-
dinary placed so far this year, which is hailed as an outstand-
ing achievement by his company, the Equitable Life.

Dan Owen and his wife were in Lexington for Finals.
Dan is Manager of the Fruit Growers Co-operative Corpora-
tion, Crozet, Virginia.

W. L. (Pin) Webster, Lieutenant Colonel, Army Air
Forces, after having spent four years in the service, is now
back at his old job representing Mr. Ford, as the Webster
Motor Sales Company, Inc., 1044 State Street, Schenectady,
New York, established in his own home and meeting his old
friends.

Damon G. Yerkes is United States Attorney, Southern
District of Florida, Jacksonville, Florida. His son, Damon,
Jr., is now a student at Washington and Lee and a second
son, Judson, expects to enter the University as soon as he
gets through his Army service.

Tom Glasgow, President of Glasgow-Stewart & Company,
Charlotte, North Carolina, writes that his son, Tom, Jr., was
recently released from the Army and has come into the busi-

| 18 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ness with him; two of his daughters are off at school—one in
Richmond at St. Catherine’s, and the other at Converse, and
his youngest son is with the Navy out on Guam as a Seaman
Second Class. and the oldest daughter is at home.

George L. Coyle, President of Coyle & Richardson,
Charleston, West Virginia, says that his ties with Washing-
ton and Lee have been strengthened recently by the entrance
of his oldest son, George, Jr., in the University. He was dis-
charged from the Army Air Force, where he served as a
pilot. His second son, Tom, will graduate from Fishburne
Military School and hopes to enter Washington and Lee this
coming September.

William Hodges Mann, Jr., is busy practicing law, running
a dairy farm and being Vice-President and Director of two
operating coal mines. Recently he made his first stab at
running for office and was elected to the City Council in the
April primary and will take office in September. His offices
are in the Union Trust Building, Petersburg, Virginia.

H. L. Crowgey is retiring as Principal of the Pocahontas
High School, Pocahontas, Virginia, and writes his class
agent that he expects to spend the remainder of his days as
a farmer and orchardist. His home address is Emory, Vir-
ginia.

1913

Thomas F. Walker has justly charged us with giving news
of him of twenty years ago in the last issue of the Alumni
Magazine, stating that he was Judge of the Juvenile and Do-
mestic Relations Court of Wythe County, Virginia. We of-
fer our apologies. H. M. Heuser, LL.B. ’90, holds this office,
and Mr. Walker has been practicing law in Wytheville, Vir-
ginia, for the past 25 years. He was War Finance Chairman
for Wythe County during the entire war and says he enjoyed
the privilege of working with and under Dr. Francis P.
Gaines.

1914

Dr. Van M. Matthews of Redbud Crescent Farm, Char-
lotte. North Carolina, feels he helped the war
effort by delivering 365 babies in 1943, 362 in
1944, and 361 in 1945.

Ray S. Smith, who is in the real estate busi-
ness in Hot Springs, Arkansas, has two sons in
the Army, both of whom are Washington and
Lee alumni.

W. Houston Barclay and his family were
recent visitors to his old home in Lexington.
His son, Bill, has just returned from the Pacif-
ic where he was in action on Iwo Jima and
Okinawa. He is in the insurance business with
offices in the First National Bank Building,
Wichita, Kansas.

Walter J. Wilkins is still in the cotton busi-
ness at Pine Bluff, Arkansas. His son, Howard,
‘46, after having seen action at both Iwo Jima
and Okinawa, will be back at Washington and
Lee in the fall; Walter, Jr., a First Lieutenant
in the U. S. Medical Corps was, at the time
his letter was written in May, at home on leave
while being transferred from the staff of Ken-
nedy General Hospital in Memphis to Fort Sam
Houston at San Antonio, Texas.

J. D. Thornton reports the death of his be-
loved partner in business on February 20, and
that he has been busy and upset in transferring

the business into his own name. The firm was formerly Flem-
ing and Thornton, Huntsville, Alabama.

Dr. Daniel C. Buchanan, Missionary of the Presbyterian
Church to Japan, returned to this country and worked in the
Office of War Information for a year and was then trans-
ferred to the Office of Strategic Services and did intelli-
gence work for more than two years. Last October he flew
to Japan under the auspices of the Army and was there for
three months assisting in the evaluation of bombing on Jap-
anese civilian morale. At present he is in the employ of the
Department of State as a Specialist in Japanese affairs. His
address is 6911 Beverly Road, Bethesda 14, Maryland.

Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy has been home on forty-five
day temporary duty and returned to China on June 18. Colo-
nel Murphy has had a most interesting career in the ser-
vice which has previously been reported in the Alumni Maga-
zine. He was chief of procurement for U.S. headquarters in
China, awarded the Legion of Merit, and many other decora-
tions. His son, Lieutenant Paul J. B., Jr., 46, Ofhcer in charge
of Signal Center Headquarters, U.S. Forces, China Theatre,
expects to be out of the service and back at Washington and
Lee in the fall. Colonel Murphy’s assignment in China is
for two years and Mrs. Murphy and their daughter will join
him there as soon as families are authorized to go out.

Stuart Moore, Attorney-at-Law, Lexington, Virginia, says
he is still “wrestling with the law” and his many civic duties.
He was not in town for Finals this year as the dates con-
flicted with those of his daughter’s graduation from finish-
ing school in Charleston, South Carolina.

J. M. (Jid) Farrar is 100 per cent in the textile business as
Sales Manager for E. S. Stern Company, 343 Broadway,
New York 13, New York. He had a very pleasant reunion
with Bland Terry, ’13, in New York, whom he met at officers
training camp in France in 1917, World War I. Bland Terry’s
son has recently returned home from the Pacific theatre

of war and Jid’s son, from Okinawa, after four years ser-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

vice as a Sergeant in the Marine Corps as a radar operator.
They are both now students at Washington and Lee.

Alex M. Hitz is practicing law and is president of the
Atlanta chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni which has
more than 100 members. One of his sons graduated in 1942
and another son is now a student at Washington and Lee,
class of °49.

Samuel H. Williams, member of the law firm of Williams.
Robertson and Sackett, Krise Building, Lynchburg, Virginia,
says the biggest news with him is that one of his boys is out
of the service and the other is on his way back from Manila.
The other member of the family is a daughter, 17, now in
school at St. Mary’s in Raleigh, North Carolina.

1915

Lawrence Howerton has, for the past twenty-three years,
been employed by the Monsanto Chemical Company and the
Swann Chemical Company, the latter having been absorbed
by Monsanto in 1935. Lawrence is now Manufacturing Su-
perintendent in general supervision of the inorganic portion
of Monsanto, Illinois plant. During the war he was second
in charge of a T.N.T. plant operated by his company for
the Ordnance Department at Marshall, Texas. After eightecn
months there, he returned to his present job in November,
1943. He is married and has a son and a daughter, 17 and 12
respectively.

When Sam Keller wrote his class letter to Carl Fisher he
commented that he had the pleasure of having dinner with
Frank Gilliam a week previous. This was on the occasion of
the Detroit Alumni meeting at the Hotel Whittier on April
6. Sam is now manager of the Socony Vacuum Oil Company
manufacturing division at Trenton, Michigan. Incidentally,
the date of his letter, April 11, marked the date of his 25th
wedding anniversary.

1916

Parker Buhrman is rounding out thirty years
in United States Foreign Service. When his
letter was written in April he was connected
with the office of United States Political Advis-
or for Germany, Munich, Germany.

Grady H. Forgy is still engaged in Public
Relations work for the Petroleum Industry. His
home is in Little Rock, Arkansas. He has re-
cently had an illness from which he is recover-
ing satisfactorily. His son, Grady, Jr., °42, has
returned home after 45 months service in the
Navy, and John R., '44, is also at home after
30 months in the Army Engineers, European
and Pacific theatres,

1917

W. O. Burtner, Assistant Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C., was
a visitor to the campus in April to attend the
Phi Beta Kappa initiation and banquet. He
writes: “From all accounts, Washington and
lee weathered the war wonderfully well and
has ahead of it a period of great opportunity
and service.”

James A. Lee, Managing Editor of Chemical
Kngineering, publication of McGraw-Hill Pub-
lishing Company, Inc., 330 West 42nd Street, New York, New
York, has done a lot of traveling during the war, extending
as far as Latin America. His latest trip was to Mexico, where
he went to look over the chemical industries and general con-
ditions.

Reverend G. Raymond Womeldorf and his family are now
in the process of getting medical check-ups preparatory to
returning to China with the Presbyterian Mission Board.
They returned to this country from China five years ago.

Judge Pau! D. Barns was successful in his candidacy for
the Democratic nomination for Justice of the Supreme Court
of Florida. Address: 401 Court House, Miami, Florida.

Milton B. Rogers, recently discharged as a Lieutenant
Colonel, Army Air Forces, was a visitor to the campus at
Finals.

1919

Leonard T. Brown, 70) West Jackson Avenue, Bridgeport,
Connecticut, has always regretted that he had no son to send
to Washington and Lee. There is a possibility that September
will see his son-in-law in the student body here.

James R. Fain is with the City National Bank of Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina. He writes his class agent, Hous-
ton Patterson, Presbyterian Minister of Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia, that he has just retired as Chairman of the Board of
Deacons of the Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. He
has only been back to Lexington once since 1925.

Charles H. Taylor got back to Lexington twice during
April for short visits, the first in 20 years. He has been teach-
ing medieval European history at Harvard, with special em-
phasis on France and intellectual history. Entered the Army
in 1942 as Captain of Military Intelligence. When the War
Department set up a Historical Division in 1943 he was
called with that and has been with it since, as Chief of the

| 20 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Editorial Branch. He saw service for a year in England and
France, including the Normandy and French campaigns.

1920

C. H. McCain is still Vice-President of the William Hen-
gerer Company in Buffalo, New York. He drove his family
down through Virginia in April and saw several friends on the
campus, among them, “the still young” Dr. Howe. He wanted
his two boys to look the place over to see what they thought
of it. “Needless to say, they were enthusiastic.”

J. Waller Callison, Callison & Company, Inc., (insurance,
real estate. loans, bonds, life insurance), Echols Building,
Staunton, Virginia, says he attended a most interesting alum-
ni meeting in Waynesboro in the spring.

Harry L. Moore, Poultry Husbandman, with Cooperative
Work at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Virgin-
ia, says they are very busy there with returning veterans. His
oldest son is in the army.

Carl Foss purchased a farm about 30 miles southwest of
Albany, New York, some two years ago and is now engaged
in trying to get the materials for rebuilding the house which
burned before he bought the farm. He says: “If you can
imagine living in a house on the top of House Mountain you
will realize the kind of view we have from our farm.” For
the past five years he has been on the staff of Brigadier Gener-
al Ames T. Brown, State Director of Selective Service and
Adjutant General for the State of New York.

Ran Catell says he has about gotten reconverted to civil-
ian life after four and a half years with the Coast Artillery,
on duty most of the time as senior army officer at Joint
Army-Navy Operations at Norfolk, Virginia. He is now re-
tired and living in Covington, Virginia.

Glen Evins completed his war work with the Fairchild
Aircraft Company in Hagerstown, Maryland, at the close of
the war and is now back to his business with
Lykes Brothers Insurance Agency in ‘Tampa,
Florida.

J. Sims Edmendson has beén practicing law
in Memphis for nearly twenty-five years. He
has been back on the campus on a number of
occasions and says he did not realize that a
quarter of a century had passed since he was a
student until on his last visit all the students
addressed him as “Mister.” He is a member
of the law firm of Dixon, Edmondson and Ger-
win, Commerce Title Building, Memphis, Ten-
nessee.

1921

Lieutenant Commander Homer E. Hender-
Son, veteran of 18 months of service in the
Asiatic-Pacific theatre, is out of the service and
was recently elected a Vice-President of the
Second National Bank of Houston, Texas. He
served as personnel and legal officer on the
staff of Admiral Sharp, commander of all mine
craft in the Pacific Area.

Dr. Samuel M. Raines is now discharged
from the service and again practicing medicine
in Memphis, Tennessee. His address is 188
South Bellevue, Memphis 4, Tennessee.

1922

Dr. Andrew E. Amick, retiring President of the West Vir-
ginia Medical Association, was the speaker at the 79th an-
tual meeting of the Association, held at Huntington, West
Virginia on May 13, 1940.

1923

Joseph R. Long is still practicing law at the old stand,
Fordyce, White, Mayne, Williams & Hartman, 506 Olive
Street, St. Louis 1, Missouri, and trying to assist various cli-
ents to solve the manifold problems of reconversion. His ac-
tivities as a Major of Missouri State Guard have now ter-
minated, he says: “... to my great relief and, | am sure, for the
good of the service.” He reads the Alumni Magazine from
cover to cover, even the news of current classes and recent
alumni, because he finds repeated in the younger generation
the names of those he knew.

Reverend Raymond G. Wickersham was discharged from
the Navy as a Lieutenant Commander (Chaplain) on Jan-
uary 20, 1946. On June 1 he became pastor of the Presbyter-
ian Church at Centerville, Michigan. Address: 17331 Wash-
burn Avenue, Detroit 21, Michigan.

Douglas S. Perry has recently purchased a new, or rather
old, home, built in 1720, at 63 Perkins Street, Melrose, Massa-
chusetts. He writes: “We figure we're in for an adventure in
fun or annoyance. We've always wanted an old house so now
we'll shortly learn whether we really like one or not and get
it out of our system. If we have guessed right then we expect
to be in for a period of contentment and we expect to pay for
the house through cocktail parties. The flocrs are so uneven
that two Martinis now should be as effective as six or eight
so you see all we have to do is to give enough parties and
the mortgage will be lifted if the place doesn’t collapse from
old age.” He completed twenty years with the Travelers In-
surance Company in June, served at New Haven, Connecti-
cut, Chicago, and in Boston since 1934.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Barron O. (Buzz) Faulconer has been ill for some time
and is now in a veterans’ hospital. He is getting along first
rate, having regained 30 pounds, and hopes and expects to

He would be glad to

Ward No. 22-

get out of the hospital by next spring.
hear from some of his classmates. Address:
Bed 35, U.S. Veterans Center, Dayton, Ohio.

Lydell Peck owns and operates three rather large ranches

in Northern California, viz: a cattle ranch near Yosemite
Valley, a dairy ranch in the San Jacinto Valley, and a prune
ranch in the Sacramento Valley. For several years at the

start of the war he was Industrial Relations Advisor to the
United States Maritime Commission on the West Coast and
also represented Admiral Land on the War Production Board
and on the War Manpower Commission. Last July he sev-
ered his connection with the United States Maritime Com-
mission to Commercial Facilities Advisor for Fed-
eral Public Housing Authority, Region IV, which consists
of California, Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. Address: Box 177.
South Peardale Drive, Lafayette, California.

become

1924
Stuart A. McCorkle is Professor of Government and a
Director of Municipal Research, The University of Texas,

Austin 12, Texas. He warns his class agent not to believe all
the headlines he sees in the news about Texas, since they
really have all the freedoms there. Within a short time he will

go to the University of Illinois as visiting Professor of Mu-

 

nicipal Government. He was recently elected to mem-

bership in Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee.

Walter H. Scott is now back in his law office, 130

West Campbell Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia, after a
session of the Virginia Assembly, trying to get his
law practice going after three years in the service,

which he left as Lieutenant Commander, having been
appointed to that rank last May. He has one child, age
three years, and says he can think of nothing else that
would be of interest to his classmates.

Edward L. Oast is Judge of the Circuit Court of
Norfolk County, Virginia. His firm is Oast and QOast,
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law, New Kirn Build-
ing, Portsmouth, Virginia.

1925

Allen Rushton has recently been appointed co-chair-
man of the Birmingham and Jefferson County, Ala-
bama, Community Chest drive. Before his release from
the army last September he was executive officer of
the Birmingham Ordnance District. In accepting this
post of responsibility he is but following in the foot-
steps of other members of his family in their devotion
to and work for the interests of the community. His
father, the late J. Frank Rushton, was one the
original founders and promoters of the local chest,
starting it in 1922. His brother, William J. Rushton, ’21,
is now a member of the executive committee of the
chest, while another brother J. Frank Rushton, ’23, has
held prominent posts in chest campaigns.

of

William E. Moore, who was President of the class
of °25-L, his senior year, writes his class agent: “]
a great kick out of the class list you included and |
have read aloud the surnames of the class to recall how
roll-call sounded. I found I could repeat the roll-call
without reference to the list you sent me.” He is City
Attorney of the town of Waynesboro, Virginia.

got

Billy McRitchie, with Guaranty Trust Company of New
York, who did such a splendid job as class agent during the
war years, writes that there is no particular news to report
about himself. He has a wife and three children, “a boy at
each end and a girl in the middle.”

1926

During the greater part of the war Ralph Masinter served
with the Office of Price Administration in various capacities
and finally wound up Hearing Commissioner for this
agency for the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsyl-
vania, Delaware, Maryland and the District of Columbia.
Ralph has now returned to private practice, with his law
ofhces located at 1441 Broadway, New York.

as

1928

Carland H. Hayes is Assistant Vice-President of Bank-
ers Trust Company, New York. He served as a Lieutenant-
Colonel with the Army Air Force and was awarded a Bronze
Star Medal at Mediterranean Allied Air Forces in Italy.

Wilton Garrison has recently been promoted to the posi-
tion of Sports Editor of the Charlotte Observer, Charlotte,
North Carolina, taking the position occupied by Jake Wade
for 16 years, who has resigned to go into business.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Hobson Louis James has been named First Assistant Dis-
trict Attorney for Western Kentucky. A native of Elizabeth-
town, Kentucky, he began the practice of law there in 1928,
after attending the University of Louisville and Jefferson
School of Law.

Paul E. Dauzherty, discharged as a Major from the Army
Air Corps, after 34% years service, is now back in Houston,
Texas, practicing law, with offices in the Esperson Building.

J. D. McHugh has for the past two years been an Entorce-
ment Attorney for the OPA in Connecticut. Prior to that
time he practiced law in New Haven. He has one wife, two
boys, one girl and one dog. He has not been able to get back
to Washington and Lee since graduation, but hopes to do
SO SOOT.

1929

Alfred C. Junkin writes his class agent as follows: “My
four year tour in the Army was spent in the 77th Infantry
Division as platoon sergeant of a rifle company. Incidentally,
practically all the criginal outfit were from New York and
New Jersey. They were not exacily the Washington and Lee
type but were good rugged boys who killed their share of
Japs and never hesitated to stick a bayon_t where it would
do the most good. We hit Guam, Leyte, Okinawa and gar-
risoned Hokkiedo. The boys tock a terrific mauling on
Okinawa. All except 18 of the original 186 in C company
were killed or wounded. It is good to be home and I trust
World War III may not come in our time.” Al is now with

T. Coleman Andrews and Company, Certified Public Ac-
countants in Richmond, Virginia.
Robert W. Pharr parted company with Uncle Sam in

January 1946, after almost five years, having been succes-
sively promoted from First Lieutenant to full Colonel, on
May 4, 1945, acquiring a Bronze Star and Legion of Merit
from Uncle Sam, The Military Cross from Czechoslovakia,
and the Order of the Oaken Wreath from Luxembourg, to-
gether with five battle stars on his E.T.O. ribbon. He is prac-
ticing law in the Commerce Title Building, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

Jokn Bell Towill has returned to the active

practice of law after 3% years service in the
United States Navy. His firm is Hull, Barrett,
Willingham & Towill, Augusta, Georgia. By vir-
tue of his services with the Third, Fifth and
Seventh Fleets, he is authorized to wear the fol-
lowing campaign bars and battle stars: Amer-
ican Area Ribbon; Asiatic-Pacific Ribbon with
5 stars; Philippine Liberation Ribbon with 2
stars; Commendation Ribbon; and the Victory
Ribbon.

Bob Powers, Jr., is now back in the prac-
tice of law in Portsmouth, Virginia, after five
years in the service. He was called to active

duty in 1941, having been commissioned in the
Naval Reserve in 1937; had two years in Trini-
dad, British West Indies, as Legal Officer for the
base and Trinidad Sector, also served as Se-

curity Officer and in charge of police and fire
departments; for 2% years on duty with Judge
Advocate General’s office in Washington, D.C.,
where he served reviewing General Courts Mar-
tial, in charge of the bond section: Counsel for
Judge Advocate on the Pearl Harbor Court in
Inquiry; and finally, as Chief International Law

Officer for the Navy. Address: 325 Webster Avenue, Ports-
mouth, Virginia.

1930

Captain Robert E. Clapp, Jr., obtained a leave of absence
from his position as Assistant Attorney General of Mary-
land for the purpose of volunteering for induction. After
Officers Candidate School, he was commissicned a Second
Lieutenant in the Judge Advocate General’s Department. Af-
ter various assignments he finally returned to Baltimore in
August, 1945, as Assistant Service Command Judge Advo-
cate and Executive Officer to the Service Command Judge
Advocate. He hopes to be relieved from active duty some
time this summer. Home: 303 Rockwell Terrace, Frederick,
Maryland.

Ben Rawlins writes that since his last class Ictter, he has
made a slight shift in jobs—from a General Attorney on the
staff of the Law Department of United States Stcel Corpora-
tion of Delaware to General Attorney, Carnegie-IIlinois Steel
Corporation, involving some change in duties because this
company is an operating company, whereas the Delaware
Corpcration is advisory.

1932

Warren H. Edwards was recently discharged with the
rank of Major in the U.S. Marine Corps and is now finishing
his law course at the University of Florida, 1720 West Uni-
versity Avenue, Gainesville, Florida.

Charles Edward Long is serving as Counsel for the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives in Wash-
ington, D.C. His permanent residence continues in Dallas,
Texas, but for the present he is living at 2616 Joyce Street,
Arlington, Virginia.

H. N. Joyce writes that he and Bill Stone, ’33, are the re-
maining members of his law firm in Martinsville, Virginia.
One partner died in 1941 and another became Judge of their
circuit in 1944. Bill spent three years in the Navy but came
back last October.

 

 

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Ress Malone was released from the Navy with the rank

of Lieutenant Commander in December, 1945, and resumed
the practice of law “at the old stand” on January 1, 1946,
Atwood & Malene, J. P. White Building, Roswell, New Mex-
ico.
1933

George F. Parsons is out of the service after four years
and ten months. He has been married for a year and a half
and is now back at his home in Capeville, Virginia, working
for his father, attending to the rental of his property.

Al Symonds, after four long years in the army, was dis-
charged on January 28, 1945. He is back at his old job with
W. D. Allen Manufacturing Company, and in the same of-
fice with brother Bill. He was fortunate enough to be able to
buy a home in Evanston in time to welcome his second Wash-
ington and Lee man, Bruce Brewer Symonds on March 1.
Allen, their five-year old, starts to school in September. Ad-
dress: 2110 Pioneer Road, Evanston, Illinois.

Irving Buck Bricken, after four years, is now-out of the
service. He is with Bricken Brothers, Incorporated, Real Es-
tate, 565 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York.

Bill Symonds, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Illinois,
rejoices that all the boys are back and that in spite of OPA,

taxes, etc., things are getting back to normal.

Bill Brooks is still with General Motors, now being con-
nected with Pontiac Motor Division, 1212 Sterick Building,

 

Memphis 12, Tennessee. His position is that of Sales
and Service District Manager with headquarters in
Little Rock, Arkansas. However, due to the acute
housing shortage, he is still living in Memphis and
commuting back and forth to work.

Bill Flowers, Flowers Baking Company, Incor-
porated, is in the wholesale baking business, having
a plant manufacturing bread in Thomasville, Georgia,
and Jacksonville, Florida. He has been married ten
years and has three daughters, age 4, 2, and 1 month.
Address: Merrily Plantation, Thomasville, Georgia.

Eddie Bacon, since returning from the service, has
been identified with Marsh and McLennan, Incorpo-

rated, insurance brokers, Pierce Building, St. Louis,
Missouri. He is married and has one child four years
old.

Loring Garrison was discharged from the Army
Medical Corps on November 16, 1945, after four years
service. He was married on November 20 to “the finest
little girl in the world.” He is connected with a large
hardware firm, in the plumbing and heating depart-
ment, in Anderson, South Carolina. Address: 1209
North Main Street, Anderson, South Carolina.

J. Fred Cook, recently discharged from the Army,
now back at his home in Waynesboro, Virginia, has
been elected President of the Waynesboro lccal alumni
chapter.

Dr. J. B. Wharton, Jr., was placed on inactive duty
in December, 1945, and started back in practice early
in January—Drs. Wharton and Wharton, 213-18 Ex-
change Building, EK] Dorado, Arkansas.

M. H. (Mo) Crighton has been discharged from
the service and is now back in the bond business, trav-
eling the Middle West. Address: 1110 Grove Street,
Evanston, Illinois.

Edwin W. Chittum has changed positions since last spring.
Until June 1, 1945, he was- High School Supervisor in Nor-
folk County, at which time he accepted a position as prin-
cipal of a high school in the suburbs of Norfolk, Northview
High School, Norfolk 2, Virginia.

Lieutenant-Colonel W. Tcodd DeVan wrote to his class
agent on the eve of taking a flying trip to the French Riviera
for a week before rotating home for reassignment. He was
home on leave at Christmas and was married to Miss Char-
lotte N. Sheppard of Hanover, Pennsylvania. After the honey-
moon in Florida and Havana, Cuba, he returned to Frank-
fort, Germany, to complete his term of 2% years overseas,
where he is commanding officer of his outfit. His address in
future will be Medical Division, Chemical Warfare Center,
Kkdgewood Arsenal, Maryland, where he is reporting the lat-
ter part of June to occupy the position of Executive Officer in
the Research laboratories.

Commander H. Arthur Lamar, writing his class agent on
May 12, says: “I left Fleet Admiral Nimitz in December and
have been the Executive Officer of this communication flag-
ship since. We are currently at San Pedro for drydocking
and logistics in preparation for going out to Bikini for the
atom bomb drop. We will have as passengers a large group
of distinguished newspaper and radio men.”

Richard T. Edwards, A.B. ’33, LL.B. ’35, has resumed the
general practice of law, after active duty with the United
States Navy, in Roanoke, Virginia, with offices in the Colon-

| 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ial-American National Bank Building. He was elected recent-
ly to the Roanoke City Council, to take office in September.

1934

Charlie Pritchard, now released from the Naval Air Corps,
has opened a summer resort at Pencap Point on the East
River overlooking Mobjack Bay, 2% miles south of Mathews,
Virginia. He says he has never worked so hard as he has for
the past four months, but feels that he has really started
something worthwhile. He has sent the Alumni Office some
most interesting descriptive folders.

Joe Snyder came through Lexington last November while
on his terminal leave from the Navy. He served 43 months
in the Navy, 15 months of which was spent overseas in the
Southwest Pacific area, and was released to inactive duty with
the rank of Lieutenant Commander. He returned to the Fi-
delity and Deposit Company of Maryland (his first and only
job since finishing at Washington and Lee) and is now in
charge of the Raleigh, North Carolina, Service Branch Office,
having North Carolina as his territory. Address: Cameron
Court Apartments, Raleigh, North Carolina.

Herbert Rudlin is just out of the service after four years.
He was a combat intelligence officer for a night fighter
group, “...and didn’t miss a mudhole or a hellhole from
Africa on up.” He is a writer and dreams of one day writing
the great American novel to end all American novels. Ad-
dress: 601 Garland Avenue, Takoma Park, Maryland.

Ruge DeVan ended his Army career on February
22, 1946, being released to inactive duty. He had been
in the service since June, 1942. His last year was spent
aboard an APA, and was interesting, as they made two
trips to Japan. He ended his career with the Navy as
a Lieutenant Commander, after 2% years as a lieuten-
ant. He is now back in his insurance business, DeVan
& Company, Charleston, West Virginia. He was mar-
ried in 1940 and has two boys, Ruge, III, 4%, and
Michael, 2'%4, who can already sing the Washington
and Lee Swing and have definitely made up their minds
to be future “Generals.”

Victor F. Tucker was recently released from the
Navy as a Lieutenant Commander after nearly four
years as Air Combat Intelligence officer aboard the
aircraft carriers Essex and Randolph. While in the
Pacific area he ran across many Washington and Lee
men. He is now in the publishing business with Ginn
& Company, Educational Publishers, Address: 261
West Walnut Lane, Germantown, Pennsylvania.

Jesse Leigh is in the insurance business at 40 North
Main Street, Hamlet, North Carolina. He was dis-
charged from the Marines last November after 20
months service. He is married and has four children,
Emily, Ann, Hinton, and Jesse 3rd.

Jeseph Walker, Jr., emerged from the Army as a
Major, February 3, 1946, having served in Italy with
the 10th Mountain Division as Assistant Division G3.
Participated in two campaigns—North Apennine
Mountains and Po Valley. He is now a partner in
Joseph Walker & Company, Cotton Merchants, Colum-
bia, South Carolina, and has recently purchased a seat
on the New Orleans Cotton Exchange. He says he is
presently engaged in learning the cotton business all
over again.

George D. McClure says he is just recently reconverted
from the Army where, as Chief of the Safety Division of the
Air Transport Command, he managed to travel slightly over
700,000 miles all over the globe. He is now back in his home
town, Dallas, Texas, and is in the insurance business.

Harry M. Rhett, Jr., was released from the Army as a
Major, after 4% years service, and is now back in Huntsville,
Alabama, in the investment business. He had a rather serious
accident recently while schooling a hunter, in which his
right arm was broken.

1935

Charles C. Smith received his discharge from the Navy
last October with the rank of Lieutenant Commander, after
forty-two months service. He is now back at his old job with
Buckman, Ulmer, and Mitchell, Buckman Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida. He was recently elected Secretary of the Jack-
sonville, Florida, Alumni Chapter.

Loyal P. Gassman was discharged from the Army on No-
vember 7, 1945, and is now back at his home in Freeport, Illi-
nois. He is connected with the Sales Department of the Ar-
cade Manufacturing Company, a business established by his
father. He has moved to 1177 West Stephenson Street, Free-
port, and has become acquainted with his two-year old son
whom he had never seen.

Gilbert Swink has been released from the U.S. Coast
Guard after serving from June, 1942, much of the time in the

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Pacific Theatre, and is now back in the practice of law, Swink,
Swink & White, Norfolk, Virginia. One of his partners is his
brother, Fred, ’30-A, ’32-Law, also now discharged from ser-
vice with the Coast Guard.

Edwin T. Coulbourn has had quite an eventful year as
he was in and out of the Army, staying long enough, how-
ever, to receive the full basic training course and military
police training. He was scheduled to receive further training
in criminal investigation when the Army decided that fathers
of three children should be released. His three daughters
stood him in good stead. He is now back at his law practice,
being a member of the firm of Coulbourn and McLemore,
Suffolk, Virginia.

William L. (Billy) Wilson says: “At present I am back
in the old job of offering to practice law and have been at
it since the first of February.” Before that he spent two years
in the Navy as an Air Combat Intelligence Officer with a
Torpedo Bomber Squadron. Address: Law Offices of Wil-
son and Wilson, Owensboro, Kentucky.

Dr. Guy H. Branaman, Jr., was commissioned a Lieuten-
ant (j.g.) in March, 1942, and after specialized training in
this country, was attached to Naval Hospital, Island of Maui,
assigned as Flight Surgeon; assigned to 29th Air Group and
joined Admiral Halsey’s Third Fleet at Ulithi, September,
1944; participated in Philippine landing, Tokyo bombings,
Indo-China operations and Hongkong Campaign action at
Formosa, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. He was made a Lieu-
tenant Commander July, 1945, and discharged from the ser-
vice January, 1946. He is now back at Sloan’s Hospital for
Women, as Assistant Resident Physician. Address: Herod-
ian Court, Apartment 607, 414 West 120th Street, New York,
New York.

Don R. Wallis is now out of the Navy, having served on
the fast Carrier, U.S.S. Monterey, as Officer of the Deck and
Signal Officer. He says they scoured the seas from Tarawa
to Tokyo and got their share of the Jap airforce installations,
plus several Jap warships. Has opened an automobile financ-
ing company in Columbus, Ohio, of which he is Manager, at
37 North Third Street, Columbus 15, Ohio.

Captain Henry Ravenhorst, now on terminal leave at his
home in Lexington, has accepted a position as Housing Ad-
ministrator for the University. He served in the Army Signal
Corps for 4% years; was in the Aleutians from September
1943 to April 1944, and later as Assistant Signal Officer,
Alaskan Department. He was married to Dorothy Angle on
November 3, 1945. Address: 3 Edmondson Avenue, Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

Lieutenant Colonel Rudolph Bumgardner of Staunton,
Virginia, was recently awarded the Bronze Star Medal for
meritorious achievement. He heads the Legal Section, Recov-
ered Personnel Division, Army Forces, Western Pacific.

John D. Spohr, when his letter was written in May, 1946,
was in a U.S. Naval Hospital, but expected to be out within
a short time, and back at work with his old employer, The
Texas Company. Since then, we understand that he has been
discharged, but have no further information. Address: 95
Fairmount Avenue, Chatham, New Jersey.

1936

Reverend James L. Price, Jr., was detached from the Navy
on June 20, after three years service as a Chaplain. During
July and August he will be substitute minister at the St.

Charles Avenue Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, and in
September comes to Washington and Lee as Director of
Christian Work. He will also serve as an instructor in the
Department of Philosephy and Religion. His wife is the
former Ruth Gordon Watts and they have a son, born March
10, 1946.

Stewart Buxton was discharged from the Navy last De-
cember after three years service. His home is at 65 Gallaway
Drive, Memphis, Tennessee, is married and has two children,
a boy and a girl.

Bruce Lanier is now married and has a family of three
red headed boys and, needless to say, “is very much settled.”
Home: West Point, Georgia.

Robert F. Corrigan has been in the American Consulate,
Natal, Brazil, for more than a year. He says it is an interest-
ing place principally because of the large scale air installa-
tions, serving as the “springboard to victory” during the war.
Indeed, the corridor for aircraft over Northeast Brazil has
been called the “Corridor to Victory” as, without it, the defeat
of Rommel in Africa, the invasion of North Africa, etc., would
not have been possible. The situation at present is quiescent
in terms of former activity but there is still considerable
North-South movement and commercial aviation trans-At-
lantic traffic. He sends his best regards to all former class-
mates.

Edward A. Turville, recently discharged from the Navy,
has entered into a law partnership with James A. McClure,
Jr., A.B. ’34, LL.B. ’37, under the firm name of McClure &
Turville, 501-503 Empire Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.
He and his wife, the former Janet Wright, and his young
son are living at 1114 Seventeenth Street North, St. Peters-
burg, Florida.

Charles Jeoffrey Mower has been discharged from the
Army and has recently been transferred by his firm from
Washington, D.C., to Asheville, North Carolina. His home
is at 15 Farrwood Avenue, Asheville, North Carolina.

1937

Horace Lyman Bachelder was ordained at the Pilgrim
Congregational Church, Ansonia, Connecticut, on Sunday,
April 7, 1946.

Joseph L. Arnold, LL.B. ’37, is a candidate for the Demo-
cratic nomination for Congress from the Sixth Kentucky
District. A member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, Joe
played at the quarterback position on the varsity team for
three years. After he was admitted to the bar in 1938 he
became a member of the law firm of Allen, Duncan and Arn-
old, Lexington, Kentucky. He enlisted in the armed service
May 11, 1942, and saw action in the Southwest Pacific. As a
staff sergeant with the Counter Intelligence Corps, Joe
spent seven months on Okinawa. He later went to Japan and
was discharged February 6, 1946, after being in the service
for nearly four years.

1938

Waldo Miles is getting back to the practice of law after
thirty-nine months in the Naval Air Force. Just prior to his
release to inactive duty, as Lieutenant Commander, he had
been serving with Carrier Fighting Squadron 153 as Air
Combat Intelligence Officer. Waldo is a member of the Wil-
liams, Miles & Williams law firm in Danville, Virginia.

| 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1939

Arthur Ward Archer, Jr., since his discharge from the
Navy, has been working for the television department of
CBS as a promotion writer. He hasn't been able to get a
place to live yet, so asks that his address for the present be:
Television Department, Columbia Broadcasting System, In-
carporated, 15 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York 17, New York.

John Lillard Davis, 5007 Broadway, Indianapolis, Indiana,
was in the Army from November, 1940, until October, 1945,
in Egypt for 13 months of this time. He is working for the
W. D. Allison Company—handling their advertising.

Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr., was in the Field Artillery from
August 11, 1944, until April 18, 1946; in the Philippines from
July 11, 1945, until March 27, 1946. He and his family, wife,
boy 4% and girl 1%, live at 1510 Pentridge Road, Baltimore

12, Maryland.

Tom Christopher, now out of the service, has been in-
structing pilots at an aircraft company in Tuscaloosa, Ala-
bama, and studying law at the University of Alabama. Ad-
dress: Box 1054, University, Alabama.

Arthur E. Neilsen went into the Army in 1943 and was
sent to school to study dentistry for six months at the Uni-
versity of West Virginia, and is now at New York Univer-
sity’s dental school, with two years to go. Since 1939 his
life has been expanding to the tune of two boys, Craig, 2/%
years old and Chris, 2 months. He built a home in 1941 just
far enough out of New York City so that they can see for
themselves just what wild deer, rabbits, etc., look like. They
have them in their own back yard even though they are but
one hour’s ride to the city. Address: 94 Lakeview Street,
River Edge, New Jersey.

Thornton R. Cleek, 908 West Beverly Street, Staunton
Virginia, was in the Army for sixty-two months, and is now
discharged. He was married to Miss Dorothy Rich of Clin-
ton, North Carolina, on December 25, 1943, and they have a
son, Thomas Rich Cleek, born October 13, 1944. Thornton
will enter the Medical College of Virginia in September.

Bob Hoyt was released from the Army in October, 1945,
as a Captain in the Army Medical Corps, having obtained a
course in Hospital Administration which fitted him for what
is going to be his life work. He is now at Harford Memorial
Hospital, Havre de Grace, Maryland.

W. Roy Hogan was discharged as a Lieutenant in the
Army Air Force after having flown a tour of duty for the
15th Air Force in Italy in 1944 and 1945. He is now working
for the Shell Oil Company as a petroleum geologist and
living in Tyler, Texas. Address: 700 Broadway, Tyler, Texas.

Sherwin B. French, released after forty months with the
Army Air Force, is now back with the Detroit Times as an
advertising representative. Home: 2239 Burns Avenue, De-
troit, Michigan.

Dr. J. L. A. Webb, B.S., ’39, teaching at Southwestern,
Memphis, Tennessee, recently received a $2,000 grant from
Research Corporation to work on research aimed at discov-
ering a new method for the preparation of compounds used
in making medicines. His assistant will be the former Jeanne
Kk. DeHoff, now his wife. During the war Dr. Webb was en-
gaged in research looking for antidotes to heavy metal pois-
oning such as lead, mercury or cadmium. The results of this
research have been submitted for publication in “The Jour-
nal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.”

 

mate

a:

 

Edward L. Sellers, 40

 

Lieutenant Commander Randolph D. Rouse has been des-
ignated special assistant to Rear Admiral J. J. Broshek, di-
rector of the industrial division in the office of the Secretary
of the Navy. Will serve in that capacity until the forthcoming
retirement of Admiral Broshek, who serves as management
engineer for the administration of naval shore activities.
Commander Rouse participated during the war in the ad-
vance planning of major operations and compiled several
works on naval logistics. Home: Valley Vista Apartments,
Belmont Road, N. W., Washington, D. C.

William A. Jenks is now an instructor in History at Wash-
ington and Lee. After graduating in 1939 he spent three years
in graduate school at Columbia working under Carlton Hayes.
During the war he was associated with the Office of Stra-
tegic Services and spent considerable time in the Near East.

1940

Edward L. Sellers, wartime Navy flier and former pub-
licity assistant of the Norfolk and Western Railway at
Roanoke, Virginia, has been appointed to the public relations
staff of PCA (Capital Airlines), National Airport, Washing-
ton 1, D; &.

H. G. Disbrow, Jr., was discharged from the Navy in De-
cember, 1945, and is now back at his old job as salesman in
the New York Sales Office of J. T. Baker Chemical Company.
His home is at 10 Woodside Road, Madison, New Jersey.

Major Robert Rosslyn Davis, while overseas as an execu-
tive officer of a Marine PBD squadron, was injured in Min-
danao—hospitalized—skin grafting—is now well and has re-

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

turned to full duty status. His home is at 1533 Church Street,
Wauwatosa, Wisconsin.

Oswald B. McEwan, recently discharged with the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel, has been awarded the Legion of Merit.
He was assigned to the legal staff of Third Army Head-
quarters. His work in planning combat operations in France,
Luxembourg, Belgium and Germany distinguished him as an
outstanding staff officer. The citation was awarded “because
of his exceptional foresight and decisive action in dealing
with black market activities, civilian trials, civilian prisons
and concentration camps, the selection of governmental of-
ficials and the ousting of Nazi officials were promptly car-
ried out.” He has resumed the practice of law in Orlando,
Florida.

Homer D. Jones, now discharged from the Navy, has re-
cently left Koppers Coal Division of Eastern Gas and Fuel
Association to join the New England Coal and Coke Com-
pany. He has recently purchased a 200-year old colonial house
at 1556 Massachusetts Avenue, Lexington, Massachusetts,
where he and his wife and two sons are living. He says he
bought it for the door, the fireplaces, and miniature attic
steps, the five foot thick foundation, and that Paul Revere
rode by the brass knocker.

Captain Latimer G. Young wrote his class agent from
Japan, where he is working with the Medical Corps as bat-
talion surgeon in a replacement depot, that he expects to
be on his way home in two or three months. Home: 2906
Guilford Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

Brent Farber was discharged from the Navy in Novem-
ber, 1945, and is now sales director for the Philadelphia Plant
of the Elite Laundry Company of Baltimore, Maryland. He
has bought a house in Wynwood, a suburb of Philadelphia,
but his family, wife and two daughters, still are living in Bal-
timore, as he does not get possession of his new home until
September, 1940.

George Grasty returned to Duke University last fall. He
has recently received his M.A. degree, and this summer ex-
pected to enter Middlebury College, in Vermont, for the Ger-
man summer school, in which no language but German is
permitted at any time. He gives his address at 644 Shelton
Street, Chadron, Nebraska, from which mail will always be
forwarded.

Paul W. Gregory, Jr., has been in Nurenburg, Germany, in
the Counter Intelligence Corps and is now returning home.
He was married to Isobel Clemmer of Lexington in 1942,
and she and their son have made their home at 8 Jordan
Street, Lexington, Virginia.

1941

Pedro Antonio Rodriguez, Apartado No. 7, Lares, Puerto
Rico, was a visitor to the campus in May, accompanied by
his wife and young son. He is now General Counsel, Public
Service Commission, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Jack Perry is still in the Navy and, according to his own
statement, enjoying himself. He expected to be released about
June 15. Jack visited Lexington in February.

Rufus Shumate is now out of the Army and hoping to get
settled in Pearisburg, Virginia. He claims that it is great to
be out, but that he still feels a little lost—and this will cer-
tainly sound familiar to our many alumni who are once again
joining the civilian ranks. Rufus has a son who will be com-
ing to W & L, “before many more years.”

After almost four years spent in the Service, Charlie Lan-
drum is now practicing law in Lexington, Kentucky.

Ralph E. Lehr returned recently from Guam where he
spent a year at the Twentieth Air Force Headquarters in a
Statistical Control Unit as Chief of the Supply Statistics Sec-
tion. He is now out of the service and has joined his brother
Walter, ’37, in establishing their own business venture—Real
Estate and Mortgage Loans. Address: 2119 Alamo National
Building, San Antonio, Texas.

James B. Richardson, Jr., was discharged from the Army
Air Corps in November, 1945, and is now working for Paxton
Company, Marine Supplies, in Norfolk, Virginia. While he
was in service he was married to Donna Haley of Benning-
ton, Kansas. Address: 834 Westover Avenue, Norfolk 7,
Virginia.

Thomas G. Morris, after four years in the Army (Second
Armored Division), was released in September, 1945, with
the rank of Captain. Combat decorations—Silver Star with
Oak Leaf Cluster and Bronze Star. He is now president of
the Morris-Bradford Company, making metal awnings, of
which Larry Bradford, °42, is vice-president. Tom has been
niarried four years and is the proud father of a son, Thomas
George, Jr., three months old. Home: 3053 Worthington
Avenue, Cincinnati 11, Ohio.

Richard Day was released from the Army in January,
1946, after nearly four years in service. He was in the in-
fantry and had line duty from the border of Germany almost
to the Elbe River. He was married to Evelyn Winchester
five years ago and they have a little daughter, 2 years old. He
is now working with his father in the William H. Day Com-
pany, appliances, 327 Guthrie Street, Louisville 2, Kentucky.

Cameron Dean has been discharged from the Naval Air
Corps as a Lieutenant, after four years service, most of
which was spent in the Pacific. Started farming immediately
on his return. Home: Tribbett, Mississippi.

F. C. (Tyke)) Bryan has been practicing law in Mt.
Sterling, Kentucky, for three and a half years with the firm
of Prewitt & Prewitt. On June 1, he was married to Miss
Katherine Turner of Raleigh, North Carolina.

Bayard B. Berghaus was released as a Captain, from the
U.S. Marine Corps on May 28, 1946. He is planning to be
married in August and thereafter will live in Baltimore, Mary-
land.

Robert N. Sweeney writes: “Please be advised that in the
remote event that any of the more distinguished members of
the illustrious class of ’41 should desire to communicate with
one of their fellow members who has not yet gone quite na-
tive, he can be reached at the following address: care of Grace
y Cia (Colombia) S.A., Apartado Aereo 231, Cali, Colombia,
South America. Also I would be delighted that if any Wash-
ington and Lee University gentlemen happen by this part
of the world that he look me up and hospitality of Colombia
tempered by that of the Old South (bottled if available) and
otherwise will be offered.”

1942

Buford Stuart Stephenson, recently discharged from the
Army Air Force, is teaching in the Modern Languages De-
partment at Washington and Lee.

Adrian L. Bendheim, recently of the U.S. Naval Air
Corps, is now discharged. He is with Morton G. Thalheimer,

[ 28 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia. He says he does
not miss the Blue and Gold and, as a matter of
fact, hasn’t a great desire to fly any more airplanes.
He is the proud papa of a son almost two years old.

Louis C. Greentree served as a Navy Lieu-
tenant in the Services in the Atlantic and Pacific
and returned to civilian life last fall. Home ad-
dress: 3321 Patterson Avenue, Apartment 1, Rich-
mond 21, Virginia.

John N. Peeples is back from the Pacific and a
civilian again. He expected to report to the Har-
vard Law school in June. Home: 1203 North Pat-
terson Street, Valdosta, Georgia.

Stanley R. Goldstein has been discharged from
the Army. Took an eight-week trip to South
America, and expects to start to school again in
September.

Dougald Monroe has been discharged from the
Army Air Forces after 31 months, the last four-
teen of which were spent in Central Africa. He was
planning to enter the Graduate School at North-
western. Home: Chatham Hiuill, Virginia.

Ed Boyd was discharged from the Naval Air
Corps last December, after four years of flying. He
expects to go into the brokerage business. He mar-
ried Kitty Grady in 1942 and they have a young
son. Address: 112 Castlewood Road, Baltimore 19,
Maryland.

Walter L. Monroe was in the Army 3% years.
Was with the 445th anti-aircraft batallion and
participated in five major campaigns, receiving five
battle stars. He was discharged in November, 1945,
and is now operating a clothing store in Millsboro,
Deleware, in partnership with his brother.

Samuel F. Ciener was radio operator for the
CO of a troop carrier Squadron. Served through
the Pacific Campaign until last October when the outfit
broke up. Home: 1220 Porter Street, Helena, Arkansas.

John Menzies, discharged from the Marine Corps, plans
to be back at Washington and Lee in the fall. Home: 119
[ris and Orchards Roads, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.

Alex M. Hitz, Jr.. was an Air Corps Sergeant doing
squadron intelligence work in Colorado, India and Burma.
He was discharged in December, 1945, and has since been a
cub reporter on the Atlanta Constitution. Home: 2520 Brook-
wood Drive, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

Ned Harold Brower, discharged from the Navy as a Lieu-
tenant, 1s now working for Beau Brummel Ties, Cincinnati.
Ohio. Has a son, Paul Allan, born May 9, 1946. Home: 3719

Reading Road, Crescent Apartments, Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

Lieutenant Edmund M. Fountain, is with the Army Med-
ical Corps and is doing neurology and psychiatry at A.A.F.
Regional Hospital, Buckley Field, Colorado.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Michael W. Lau finished his medical
internship at Bellevue Hospital and is now Medical Officer
for a division of mine sweepers. He may be in the Navy for
two more years.

Russell G. Browning received his class letter on board a
“Marine Jumper” on their way down the Ganges to the

 

Arthur W. McCain, B.A., ’14,

Phi Beta Kappa, has been
elected President and a member of the Board of Directors
of the Chase National Bank. He has been engaged in com-
mercial and foreign banking for thirty-two years and dur-
ing the past twelve vears has been the zone officer in charge
of the bank’s business in the Far West, and for two years
has also had charge of the New York State and New Jer-
sey zone. He is widely identified with the financing of air-
craft manufacturing and air transport companies, and with
war production loans. For several years after joining the
Chase staff, Mr. McCain was a Vice-President in the foreign
department specializing in loans on commodities, particu-
larly cotton and wheat. He likewise had charge of the bank’s
business and banking relationships in South America, where
he previously had spent twelve years as a junior official in
branches of the First National Bank of Boston and the Na-
tional City Bank of New York.

Mr. McCain began his career as a banker as a clerk in
the Bank of Jonesboro, Jonesboro, Arkansas, soon after
graduation from Washington and Lee. He was a member of
the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity; executive committeeman for
the sophomore class; Varsity basketball; and Valedictorian of
the senior class. His writeup in the 1914 Calyx stated that
banking was his chosen profession. He has done all right!

 

ocean and bound for San Francisco by way of Manila. He
hopes to get his discharge this fall and expects to return

[ 29 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

to his job in New Bedford, Massachusetts. He was an Indus-
trial Engineer for the Continental Screw Company, and
Hy-Pro Tool Company. He is married and has two children,
Linda, almost 4 years old, and a boy Kenneth, 1 year old.

Horace H. Jeter received his discharge from the Army,
after thirty-seven months, last March. Expected to re-enter
Harvard Business School, taking his M.B.A. in May 1947,
specializing in accounting. Home: 4534 Fairfield Avenue,
Shreveport 55, Louisiana.

James Brent Clarke, discharged from the Army as a
Lieutenant after almost four years service, but had only
seven months overseas “thanks to the perfection of Jerry’s
glider bombs,” which gave him a bad time in 1943. Expected
to go back with the Aetna Casualty Company as a special
agent in July.

Bobby Vaughan is now a member of the law firm of Eas-
ley and Edmunds, South Boston, Virginia, secretary of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce, and Secretary-Treasurer of
the Halifax County Golf Club. He also teaches a Men’s
Bible Class in the Episcopal Church.

Whitt N. Schultz, now discharged after 43 months in the
Army as an editor of camp papers, an official U.S. Army
correspondent, and an editor of the Honolulu edition of Stars
and Stripes, is now president of Whitt S. Schultz & Asso-
ciates, Manufacturers’ Representative and Distributors, 1007
Ridgewood Place, Highland Park, Illinois.

Jim Woosley, discharged as a First Lieutenant, had a trip
on one of the Lykes ships, visiting San Juan and Ponce,
Puerto Rico and Cienfuegos, Cuba, and came home to enter
his father’s insurance business in Lake Charles, Louisiana.

John Preston, now out of the Navy, is working with
Charlie Didier, ’42, in The Buckeye Canning Company, Wes-
ton, Ohio. .

Green Rives, Jr., released from the Army Air Corps last
October, after three and a half years as a cadet, bombardier
and radar operator, is now in charge of the bookkeeping de-
partment for W. C. Nabers Company, a trailer manufacturing
Company, with its home office in Mansfield, Louisiana.

John Daniel was discharged from the Navy June 13, 1946.
He plans to enter Wharton Graduate School at Pennsyl-
vania, in September and after taking his Master’s degree will
take the CPA examinations and begin accounting practice.
His younger brother, Tom, will enter Washington and Lee
in the fall. Home: New Albany, Mississippi.

Bob Mooney, discharged from the Army Air Forces as a
Lieutenant, entered the Harvard Law School on June 24.
Home address: 1201 Denmark Road, Plainfield, New Jersey.

Robert Root, discharged from the Navy June 3, 1946, as
a Lieutenant (j.g.), has had a busy time in the six weeks;
moved twice, discharged from the Navy, got a job in Civil
Service, and had a baby daughter, Nancy Lee, born June 7,
1946. Address: 14 Danbury Street, S.W., Washington 20, D.C.

Bud Levy completed his three years overseas in mid-April,
made a jaunt to Lexington for Finals, and says he is ready
to get down to work now. Address: 929 Bellevue Avenue,
Trenton, New Jersey.

Crady H. Forgy, Jr., was released to inactive duty from
the Navy on April 12; spent the next eight weeks getting
caught up on his family and friends in Little Rock, Arkansas,

and started on his intensive course in the Harvard Graduate
Business School, leading to his M.B.A., around October,
1947. He expects to complete a two year course in about 17
months. Address: Chase Hall, C-22, Harvard Business School,
Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Massachusetts.

Ed McCarty, discharged from the Naval Air Corps, hav-
ing had a tour in the Atlantic operating from Coco’ Solo,
Canal Zone, and another in the Pacific, operating from Sai-
pan and Okinawa, gives no further information as to his
future plans. He was married February 7, 1944, to Ruby
June Spears of Richmond, Virginia. Home: 529 Granite
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Bob Campbell was retained in the Navy on active duty
until July 1, 1946. He plans to go to Columbia University in
September to take a one-year graduate course in Journalism.
Home: 6 Pierson Drive, Asheville, North Carolina.

Charles A. Lemkuhl, Jr., was released from a Naval Hos-
pital at Bethesda, Maryland, in June, where he had been a
patient for the past year. He had been in the Pacific for 20
months and was on his way home when he received com-
pound fracture of the left tibia. He was transferred to the
Regular Navy in May, 1946. Home: 4307 Virginia Avenue,
S.E., Charleston, West Virginia.

Ray Whitaker went into the service in Chemical Warfare
but came out in the infantry, and discharged as a Captain.
He was married to Eileen Daly of Casper, Wyoming, in the
summer of 1943, before going overseas. He is now attending
law school at Denver University as he expects to practice
in that part of the country. Address: 214 South Lincoln
Street, Denver, Colorado.

Jack Barrie, since receiving his Army discharge has ac-
cepted a position with Ralston Purina Company, in their
Kansas City plant and is learning the feed business from the
ground up. Home: Route 2, Hickman Mills, Missouri.

John L. (Soupy) Campbell, after taking a refresher course
at Illinois, has passed the Virginia State Bar Examination.
He was discharged from the U.S. Marine Corps with the
rank of Captain. Home: 452 Institute Hill, Lexington, Vir-
ginia.

1943

Mel Schept was recently discharged from the Navy and
is now “reconverting.” Address: 523-37th Street, Union City,
New Jersey.

Bill Noonan was discharged from the Naval Air Corps
December 1, 1945, and is now in partnership with his father
in the Noonan Construction Company, General Contractors,
in Pensacola, Florida.

Neely Young has been with Dibrell Brothers, Incorpo-
rated, Leaf Tobacco, Danville, Virginia, since his release
from the Air Corps in August, 1945. He and his wife and
son were in Lexington for Finals.

Walter R. (Walt) Browder, now discharged from the
Army expects to enter the Pulitzer School of Journalism at
Columbia for the fall term, working -toward an M.S. degree.
Address: 1288 Dean Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Joe Ellis was released to inactive duty from the Navy on
June 4, as a Lieutenant (j.g.). Sailed for the Pacific in Sep-
tember 1943 and spent the next two years on the same ship
(USS Ralph Talbot) serving as gunnery officer and later as

[ 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

executive officer. Was with the occupation fleet in Japan
until near Christmas, when their “battered old can” was
sidetracked into Operation Crossroads as a target ship. He
was in Lexington for Finals. He plans to go with the Com-
mercial Appeal in August or September. Home: 410 Catalpa
Street, Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Lillard Ailor, recently discharged as a Lieutenant from
the U.S. Marine Corps, was a recent visitor to Lexington.
Address: 204 East 9th Avenue, Johnson City, Tennessee.

Hinman Brown (Bob) Hawkes has been discharged from
the Army and is now in the process of reconversion to civil-
ian life. Home: 115 Grandview Street, Bennington, Vermont.

John McGehee, Jr., writing from Manila, Philippine
Islands, on July 8, 1946, expected to be on his way back to
this country by the 20th of that month. Home: 3 Main Street,
Reidsville, North Carolina.

M. R. Nelson, recently discharged from the Marine Corps
with the rank of Lieutenant, was in Lexington for Finals.
Home: 1405 Goddard Avenue, Louisville 4, Kentucky.

Tom Wilson, discharged from the Army in May, 1944, is
now at Washington and Lee managing the University cafe-
teria. He married Nancy Grover and they have a small
daughter.

Lieutenant William C. McGraw is still in service with
the U.S. Navy. Home: 425 North Berry Road, Webster
Groves, Missouri.

Lieutenant Allie Hartsfield Lane is still in the Marine
Corps stationed in China. He hopes to come back to Wash-
ington and Lee for another year when released. Home: 934
South Boulevard, Lakeland, Florida.

Ted Ciesla, released from the Navy as a Lieutenant (j.g.),
was in Lexington for Finals. He says he is thinking serious-
ly of entering the law school here in the fall. Home: 100 Mar-
ket Street, Garfield, New Jersey.

Lieutenant Alexander M. Maish, who graduated as a Sec-
ond Lieutenant from West Point after leaving Washington
and Lee, is in Japan with the 64th Topographical Engineers,
APO 181, Care of P.M., San Francisco, Isetan Building,
Shinjuku, Tokyo. Home address: “Old Keswick,” Cobham,
Virginia.

Robert P. Haley, discharged from the Navy with the
title of Lieutenant (j.g.), expects to be back in the Law
School at Washington and Lee in the fall. Home: 900 Lin-
coln Avenue, Palmyra, New Jersey.

Arthur Thompson, Jr., discharged from the Army, was
in Lexington for Finals. Home: 72 Louis Street, Staten Is-
land, New York.

Calhoun Bond, discharged as a Lieutenant (j.g.), received
a citation for exceptional performance of duty off the coast of
Normandy during the invasion, June 7, 1944. He has been
accepted for the Maryland Law School. Home: 120 Haw-
thorne Road, Roland Park, Baltimore, Maryland.

Larry Galloway, discharged from the Navy with the rank
of Lieutenant (j.g.), is now a student at the Graduate School
of Business at Harvard. He married Jacqueline Bernard in
1944. Address: 1 Crawford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

J. Morrison Hutcheson, Jr., discharged from the Navy as
a Lieutenant (j.g.) is now at the University of Virginia Med-
ical School, Charlottesville, Virginia.

 

Shown receiving the coveted Legion of Merit is Lieuten-
ant Colonel A. P. Bondurant, ’28, Vice-President and Adver-
tising Director of Glenmore Distilleries Company, Louisville,
Kentucky. Presented by Major General C. B. Stone III, the
award was made for Bondurant’s outstanding work as an
Air Force supply officer during the China-Burma-India cam-
paign. Also shown is Captain Hal Goodlad, aide to General
Stone.

As a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Forces, Bondurant was
subsequently put in charge of the United States end of “the
longest supply system in the world,” and had the respon-
sibility of moving equipment to all overseas Air Forces. The
Legion of Merit was awarded specifically for his work in
connection with the China-Burma-India campaign. During
his 3% years in the service Bondurant was stationed at
Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, and visited all theatres of war,
making one around-the-world inspection flight. A native of
Virginia and a graduate of Washington and Lee University,
Sondurant now makes his home at Poplar Hill, Prospect,
Kentucky.

 

1945

Phil Page, Jr., is at present enrolled at Cornell University,
in the School of Civil Engineering. He writes: “I miss not
returning to W & L, but my transfer was necessitated by my
choice of course.” Phil is a civilian again after three years
spent in the Army—he was sailing from Marseilles in July,
heading for the Pacific, when the war ended and his trip
was diverted to New York.

1946

John C. Short was sent overseas immediately after re-
ceiving basic training and was with the 90th Infantry Divi-
sion until he was wounded during the Normandy Campaign.
After leaving the hospital he did criminal investigation work
in Germany. He spent twenty-seven months in the service,
twenty of which were overseas. He was discharged in De-
cember, 1945, and is now a student at State University, Lowa.
Home: 2828 East Pleasant Street, Davenport, Lowa.

Fred Loeffler served aboard LCT 1283 since February,
1945, and was made Skipper in January, 1946. Spent 8 months
working from base to Sasebo and was in Nagasaki during
January and February. He was discharged May 15, 1946,
Home: 2924 St. Paul Boulevard, Rochester 5, New York,

| 31 |

 

