The

- Alumni Magazine

ashington and Lee University

Se ae

ee eal

~~ ae em + eee

AMikady 8

ASTINGTON & LEE UNIVER

PRVEXINGTOMSVA, 24450 tilt. NB >3, nobly

   

   
  
 

4

-
~~. 9

> *
>» bic ~ °
n . =
S ad

~*

   

—

    
 
     

~

 

A . es . . . 7
ss % (=a. : y 4 ‘
i ? * Prd a
4 ee od
al . . Ss ° sad
e--¢ Pe
} t
os z :
a :
,

oq EA

 

 

’ A
a : /
' 5 F
3 kd { :
_ yA pe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Homecoming

Saturday, October 16

xt
a Se LE
: Sets

Virginia
VS.

Washington and Lee
2:30 p. m.

Friday, October 15: Virginia Freshmen

vs. Washington and Lee Freshmen

Homecoming

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—A. Carter Crymble, °18, Ten-
nessee Eastman Corp., Kingsport, Tenn.

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building

Baltimore—Lawrence Galloway, °43 2525 Kirk
Avenue

Birmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee Kenna, ‘40,
501 Swarthmore

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., '19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., °41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—B. L. Malone, '24 Flor-
ida National Bank Bldg., St. Petersburg

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ‘25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Robert C. Hobson, '40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—John S. Caskie, '25, Caskie Pa-
per Company

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Gossett W. McRae, '28, 19 Rector
Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
‘13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—Harry Rand, ‘27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, ‘37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—Dr. O. Norris Smith, '29, 363 North
Elm Street, Greensboro, North Carolina

7 P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Kenneth P. Lane, '36, Box 1538

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, ‘21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ‘38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Elwood Seal, '16, 726 Jack-
son Place, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXIII AUGUST, 1948 No. 4

 

 

 

Pm ebr  as. Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917

co

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pv eee ie eh ei eee Amos Boten, 1934
V ice-President............ Henry P. Jounston, 1929
SCCTELOLY....5.0....00005. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Freer os ies WARREN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

LEoN W. Harris, 1915
Amos A. BoLen, 1934
LAURENCE W. Wixson, 1910
Henry P. Jonnston, 1929
FREDERICK S. JoHNSON, 1911
WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. Puittiips, 1908
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931

THE FRONT COVER

The Albert Sidney crew wins annual boat race on the

historic James River

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notes From the President's Office:
Bicentennial Invitation

If I could make with tremendous emphasis one bit of
special pleading to our alumni, it would be this: plan now
to visit your Alma Mater during the Bicentennial ses-
sion, 1948-49.

3 * ak x *K

During the year there will be a number of unusual
programs, and a number of regular programs appro-

~ ‘Ts . . . .
priately elaborated. The series will culminate in the
Alumni Reunion of June, 1949, when, we fervently hope,
we shall welcome the greatest group of alumni ever to
gather on the historic campus.

x* * * *K X

It is probable, however, that many other features of the
year will prove inviting to various groups of our former
students. The opening convocation, for example, will be
addressed by our honorary alumnus and devoted Wash-
ington and Lee “father,” Chief Justice Vinson. We have
designated this initial day of the whole year our Chair-
men’s Day, and have sent special invitations to the 180-
odd men who are giving service of inestimable value in
the campaign. Of course, any other interested alumnus
will be warmly welcomed.

eo BOR Ree

The sport lovers will remember that the homecoming
football game, to be played on October 16 with our
honorable rivals, the University of Virginia, is always
a spectacle of collegiate color. Our friends who are vital-
ly interested in religion might be glad to know that the
Religious Emphasis week, scheduled for November 30-
December 2, will be led by Dr. Elton Trueblood, also an
honorary alumnus, and promises to be rich in spiritual
value.

+e oe ee

Earlier in November we shall have a series of lectures

by alumni who have attained distinction in various fields.

These men will discuss some phase of their professional
experience or vision. Among those who have already ac-
cepted our invitation are Tom Sugrue, in the field of
creative writing, Arthur W. McCain in banking, McGe-
hee Harvey in medicine, I. H. Kempner in international
trade, Rosser J. Coke in legal guidance of financial in-
stitutions. This should be a series of extraordinary in-

terest.
xk *e * * x

The academic celebration, when we shall be host to
sister institutions, learned societies and the like, will be
held on April 12. The Southern University Conference,
of which we are a founding member, will meet here as
special guests. Other colleges and universities will be
represented, though not as many as we could wish, for
we are limited by the entertainment facilities of Lex-
ington.

ae pale ah

There will be other academic “events” of prime im-
portance and there will be several organizations of
scholarly interest that will meet in Lexington during the
year. We shall try to get the whole schedule to the alumni
in ample time; the point I make here is that, while the
June affair is specifically for alumni, representing the
climax of the whole season, we shall be delighted to
have our Washington and Lee men attend any program.

XK 2K K 2 *

Two reminders, please: (1) Don’t miss the Students’
Bicentennial pamphlet, to be mailed in early September—
it’s fine. (2) Don’t forget the General Education Board’s
offer to give one dollar for every four dollars we raise
(for permanent funds) is good for only the year 1948.

Ae ©7414 -

President

iJ

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The University Closes Its 199th Session

&

i

=>

%

. - bs
wr:
ens

Pd

Dr. Gaines Presents Diplomas to Graduates
of the Class of ’48

 

The 199th session at Washington and Lee closed Friday,
June 4, when President Francis P. Gaines conferred 129 aca-
demic and law degrees upon the graduates in Lee Chapel,
nearly 80 per cent of whom are veterans. Including 51 Febru-
ary graduates the class is expected to number about 270 by
the end of the summer session and is the largest in the history
of the college.

In accordance with a custom of several years standing, Dr.
Gaines addressed the graduating class, his subject being
“The Range of Preparedness.” He told graduates that “the
task of America today is to make the national preparedness
inclusive enough to carry us not merely through an emergency
but into a new security.” Algernon Sydney Sullivan medal-
lions were awarded for the first time this year to recipients
outside the student body. The awards are made to students
and non-students who excel in high ideals of living, in spiritu-
al qualities and in generous and disinterested service to others.
Miss Mary Monroe Penick, of Lexington, was among three
to receive the medallion. She is the first woman to be honored
with such an award from Washington and Lee.

Miss Penick, daughter of the late Paul M. Penick, who
served for many years as university treasurer, has long been
active in the town’s cultural affairs. She was instrumental
this spring in planning and staging a music festival memo-
rializing Professor John A. Graham, Washington and Lee
fine arts teacher who died last year. She is director of music
in the public schools of Lexington and of the Lexington
Presbyterian Church.

Also receiving the Sullivan medallion were Baldwin G.
Locher, of Glasgow, Rockbridge County industrialist and
nationally prominent layman in the Episcopal Church, and
representative in the General Assembly, and Herbert Petrie
Mitchell, of Los Angeles, California, a member of the class
of 1948.

[In the commencement audience were Chief Justice of the
United States and Mrs. Fred Vinson, to see their eldest son,

Fred, Jr., receive a bachelor of arts degree. Young Vinson
served as president of the Washington and Lee student body
this year and plans to begin the study of law in the fall. The
chief justice holds an honorary doctor of laws degree from
Washington and Lee, conferred last June.

A single honorary degree awarded Friday went to William
Laurens Pressly, associate headmaster of McCallie School.
of Chattanooga, Tennessee. In presenting the degree, Dean
James G. Leyburn said that Mr. Pressly “has given Washing-
ton and Lee recurrent reason to be grateful for having trained
and inspired scores of her students and alumni.”

The Mapleson scholarship, conferred annually upon the
bachelor of arts graduate with the highest academic record,
was awarded to R. G. Patterson, of Bluefield, West Virginia,
who was also valedictorian of the graduating class. The schol-
arship is to be used for graduate academic study. Patterson
is the son of Rev. and Mrs. C. H. Patterson and grandson
of the late Dr. Robert Glasgow of Lexington.

 

1948 Graduate Billy Forrestel and Sterling Winn,
With Future Final Ball Leaders

Lo]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Seniors Attend Annual Alumni Banquet

By Bill Bien

More than 200 Washington and Lee University seniors—
many with wives attached-——met at the Natural Bridge Ho-
tel May 11th to celebrate the approaching graduation cere-
monies which would make them official members of the Uni-
versity’s Alumni Association.

Occasion for the gathering was the annual Senior Alumni
banquet, sponsored and financed by the W. and L. alumni
group, this year set up as an elaborate buffet dinner in the
main dining hall of the luxurious Natural Bridge Hotel.
Alumni officials had selected Natural Bridge for the meeting
following the successful 1947 dinner there.

The main theme of the occasion was one of welcome to
the 125 students who would be included in the ranks of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni for the Bicentennial year.

Gaines de-

what the
Don Murray, class of
’48, responded as class spokesman, giving assurance of suc-

Following the dinner, President Francis P.
livered a brief address, outlining to the visitors
University expects of its graduates.

cessful endeavor. Harry K. (Cy) Young, Washington and
Lee alumni secretary, made another after-dinner speech of-
ficially welcoming the lastest group of alumni, and explain-
ine the organization and importance of local alumni clubs
throughout the nation.

Finally, the senior guests moved to elect Richard C.
Working, of Baltimore, president of the class, with Beverley
T. Fitzpatrick, of Roanoke, Virginia, as vice-president, and
Roland C. Rhea, of Russellville, Kentucky, as secretary, all
for five year terms. An alumni-student planning board—in-
cluding Cy Young, and student representatives Dan Wells,
Lou Shroyer, and Rhea—handled dinner and transportation
arrangements for the meeting, and secured Chap Boyd's
Southern Collegians orchestra to provide dinner music.

The occasion marked the second year wives of seniors
have been invited to attend since the war. Dr. Gaines noted
their presence as he applauded wives particularly for the high
scholastic average of the 1948 class.

 

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting

JUNE 3, 1948

(1) The meeting was called to order by Alumni President,
Leon Harris. On motion made and carried it was decided that
the reading of the minutes of the last meeting be dispensed
with.

(2) President Francis P. Gaines was introduced by Mr.
Harris.

Dr. Gaines recognized members of the Class of 1908, cele-
brating their fortieth anniversary this year, and spoke of the
loyalty of the alumni group in general. He stated that there
would be a series of events celebrating the Bicentennial
throughout the 1948-49 session, and that extensive plans were
being made for the Bicentennial Alumni Reunion in June,
1949. Alumni who have distinguished themselves in many
fields will return to the campus to speak during one week in
the coming Bicentennial year and in the Spring a series of
lectures is to be initiated in the Law School—the first by
alumnus John W. Davis, 92. Dr. Gaines has spoken to 28
local chapters of alumni during this year. He expressed his
personal gratitude for the work of the Alumni Association
and discussed the work of the Counseling and Placement
Sureau, suggested by alumni, which has had a singularly
auspicious beginning. In concluding his remarks Dr. Gaines
said, “I wish I had a medal for every alumnus who has worked
for the Campaign, who has written me a letter of encourage-
ment, who has spoken some good word to a prospective stu-
dent. This institution lives on the loyalty of its alumni and
[ wish I had a medal for each one of them—but I have only
one

“The Thomas Nelson Page medallion, awarded annually
to an alumnus of Washington and Lee University, presented
in absentia to John Wilson Drye, Jr., ’20, of New York City,
former Alumni President and presently a vice-chairman of
the Bicentennial, who has served with dignity and increasing
power to positions of high responsibility and who at no time
has been too busy for service to the University.”

 

(3) W. E. Tilson, ’26, Treasurer, reported that since a full
financial statement had been published in the February issue
of the Alumni Magazine, he would not read the entire report.
However, he gave the following totals for the year ending
June 30, 1947:

EE BUMS oi5sci ci cacicsap setts fcainc ace $22,456.14
mova. Operating Expense siiss ein. oi ckstecdien 17,116.28
Amount turned over to the University..........00.... $ 5,339.86

Mr. Tilson also stated that for the year 1947-48 the Class
Agent Plan had been merged with the Bicentennial Fund.

(4) H. K. Young, Alumni Secretary, presented the follow-
ing report:

It is hardly necessary for the Secretary of your Associa-
tion to report to you that we have had a most active year.
This is evidenced by the many communications you have re-
ceived from the University. Although an exact count of these
communications has not been made, I am sure many thou-
sands have been processed through the Alumni Office. A large
amount of the work in the office has been in connection with
the Bicentennial Program. I shall not report on this because
the Director of this program will cover it later on in this
meeting.

Kach of you has received a questionnaire in connection

 

John W. Drye, Jr., ’20
Recipient of the Thomas Nelson Page Award

 

with the preparation of our Alumni Directory and I hope
that none of you is among the three or four thousand who
have failed to return this questionnaire. Last August Thomas
C. Wilson, °43, was employed as editor of the Directory,
and we will have the pleasure of hearing from him today on
the progress which has been made in compiling this material.

Our Homecoming celebration on October 25 was most
successful, not only from the standpoint of the large number
of alumni present but the result of the football game made
the occasion most satisfactory. The luncheon was as usual
enjoyed by hundreds of alumni and their families. Much
color was added to the affair by the fraternity-house decora-
tions which we believe were the most interesting and original
we have ever had.

Undoubtedly the local associations have had the most ac-
tive year in their history, and I want to take this occasion to
express our appreciation of their fine cooperation. A hurried
check of our records shows that meetings of local chapters

ees

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Amos A. Bolen, ’34
Newly Elected President of the Alumni Association

 

have been held in 46 cities and 21 states, several of the chap-
ters having held several meetings. President Gaines has
travelled many thousands of miles to address a majority of
these meetings, as have other administrative officers and mem-
bers of the faculty. I might add that not only have we had
more alumni meetings than ever before, but the attendance
has been exceptionally large.

Each year since its inception | have reported to you on
our student-alumni relations program, and again I report
that your Association has been most active in this respect.
One of the oldest continuous activities on the campus is crew
racing. This sport has been handicapped considerably by
lack of equipment. At its June meeting last year your Alumni
3oard authorized the expenditure of $2,000 of Association
funds for the purchase of an eight-oared shell for the use of
the crews. The shell was purchased and has been in use since
April. We were also able to give financial assistance to sev-
eral other student activities. The senior banquet this year,
given by your Association, was by far the largest we have
ever had and one of the most successful.

As reported in the February issue of the Alumni Maga-
zine, the 1947 Alumni Fund was the best we have ever had.
1856 alumni contributed $24,916.38.

The Alumni Fund this year was merged with the Bicen-
tennial Fund campaign, without any sacrifice of the continu-

 

ity of our present Class Agent Plan. The class agents made
the normal contact with members of their classes, partly to
secure the information desired for Alumni Office records and
for notes in forthcoming issues of the Alumni Magazine,
but primarily to increase support of the Bicentennial Cam-
paign. Depending on the progress of the Bicentennial Cam-
paign, it is possible that in 1949 the Alumni Fund will again
be on its original basis.

Since as far back as June, 1946, I have been including in
this report information pertaining to the production of a
sound-color motion picture of the University. The picture
has now been completed and four copies of the film have been
in circulation since September. It has been seen by hundreds
of alumni, students and friends of the University and every-
where enthusiastically received. The cost of the picture was
approximately $4,500.00, but we feel it is one of the best 1n-
vestments your Association has ever made. The production
of the picture involved a great deal of work and I want to
take this occasion to thank the heads of departments, the
faculty committee and Mr. Lea Booth, Director of Publicity,
for their unfailing interest and cooperation.

Last summer the Alumni Association, in conjunction with
the Athletic Association, sent you full ticket information on
the 1947 football schedule. Included in this information was
a pamphlet on the prospects of the football season. This sea-
vice will be repeated this year and should reach you by the
middle of July. If you are planning to attend any of the
football games in 1948, I urge you to return your ticket reser-
vation requests promptly to the Athletic Department. Es-
pecially does this apply to the Homecoming game, as this will
be the largest crowd ever to attend a football game in Lex-
ington.

(5) The report of the Nominating Committee to fill va-
cancies occurring on the Alumni Board of Trustees, was pre-
sented by Alan Porter Lee, 08. This committee, composed
of Gilmore Nunn, ’31, Chairman W. Goodridge Sale, ’24, and
Mr. Lee, named the following men as their candidates to fill
the offices left vacant by the retirement of Leon Harris, ’15,
and Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, 713:

Horace W. Phillips, 08, Hardeeville, South Carolina;

Frank T. Bready, ’31, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

here being no nominations from the floor, and upon motion
duly made and carried, these men were elected.

 

Alumni Luncheon in the University Dining Hall

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

(6) Charles H. Davidson, ’31, presented the following reso-
lution which was unanimously adopted as a tribute to the
late Professor Raymon T. Johnson:

WHEREAS, RAYMON T. JOHNSON, Professor of
Law at Washington and Lee University for a period of about
20 years, died on March 25, 1948:

AND WHEREAS, during the period of his service at the
University Professor Johnson achieved the universal esteem
and respect of the students, faculty and alumni of the Univer-
sity with regard to his ability as a teacher of the Law, as well
as his outstanding qualities as a scholar, a speaker and as a
companion,

AND WHEREAS, the Alumni of Washington and Lee
University desire to officially recognize the value of his ser-
vice to the University and the loss occasioned by his untimely
death:

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the
Alumni of Washington and Lee University, at this its Annual
Meeting, go on record as expressing the deep regard of the
members of this organization for Professor Johnson and his
service to the University, and a sense of irreparable loss at
his death.

(7) Dr. L. J. Desha, ’06, Executive Director of the Bi-
centennial Campaign, reported on the status of the Bicen-
tennial Fund, indicating that receipts of “new money” (not
previously pledged) have totalled $50,000.00 since January,
1948, or an average of $10,000.00 a month. He pointed out the
necessity of raising $388,000.00 by December 31, if the Fund
is not to forfeit $100,000.00, conditionally promised by the
General Education Board. This will mean increasing general
contributions to $55,000.00 per month for the remainder of
the year. As of May 31, the amount contributed to the Fund
was $1,063,000.00. Fewer than 900 alumni contributions are
represented in this amount, and the necessity for larger alum-
ni support was emphasized.

(8) Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, ’13, made a plea for alumni
particularly in the Bicentennial effort, pointing out that the
University is really at the crossroads, and urging alumni to
go back to their respective communities and stimulate interest
in carrying this drive through to a successful conclusion.

 

 

Six of the 14 Members of the Class of ’08 who Returned to
Celebrate their 40th Anniversary, with Dr. James Lewis
Howe. Abe Somerville, Grover Batten, Alan Porter Lee, Dr.
Howe, Monty Lippitt, George McP. Minetree, Earle Paxton

 

Oldest and Youngest Classes Represented at Alumni Lunch-
eon: Elijah Funkhouser and Harrington Waddell, ’93, flank-
ing B. C. Tolley, Jr., 48

 

(9) Dr. William M. Hinton, ’29, Director, reported on the
Counseling and Placement Bureau as follows:

Number of undergraduates registered........ccccccccccceeeeseeeeee 101
POMEL TPC GOL MERTARIONEE PN Oooo a inns on nsotedesibamantgceeccs 96
Number of firms, active correspondence and informa-
CORNED SU sino ee te eR ae gh ai te 94
Number of visits from company representatives.......... 43
Number of job possibilities by correspondence, phone
RAG; DOPOD DO ics ic caiciss oc endbacinsectasteibesacorisd ves acct ttihenatd 35

Number of interviews conducted by company repre-

RTI 0 Fe season ch lea cack pei, age oe oot ag 264
Number of requests for filing applications for em-
IG RIMEIEE sci aode seats ntecgavadtecn tyes lotntce gs aR a apthaseot naséebiadeiaatbeds 57

Number of positions accepted to date..cccccccccccssccesseeeeee 12
Number of visits to the Counseling and Placement of-
fice by students for such purposes as personal confer-
ences on recommendation of the University Physician,
jobs, firms, taking of psychological tests and subsequent

SILOS OY CURE 7 oi scisuarics oe tor tele bie eee tot ae, oeieenat 325
Number of individuals tested and counselled other

than for the Veterans’ Administration at the student’s

PORMOBE os cialy ese Nit, couse dade addanvb ccna ete ocho Weckeubcbann eee 90

Miscellaneous: (a) Number of alumni actively seeking
Washington and Lee graduates—6; (b) Development of a
list of over 100 firms with foreign service possibilities: (c)
Number of tests administered for firms as part of their em-
ployment procedure—12; (d) Four complete profiles com-
piled for entrance to other schools and application for jobs;

ra

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

S. S. McNeer, Jr., °48 and S. S. McNeer, ’16

 

(e) Dexterity tests administered to one student proved a
decided factor in his gaining admission to dental school.

(10) Thomas C. Wilson, ’43, editor of the Alumni Direc-
tory, made the following report:

Gentlemen:

As an important phase of its Bicentennial celebration, your
University is in the process of compiling an Alumni Direc-
tory, which will contain pertinent information about every
alumnus since 1749. For your interest, permit me to present
a brief resume of our organization and its activities.

The Directory staff, which was organized last October, is
responsible to the Faculty Committee on Alumni and is work-
ing in conjunction with both the Alumni and Bicentennial
offices. Although we are primarily concerned with the pub-
lication of an accurate and complete directory, one which will
be of value to every alumnus, we are at the same time ren-
dering valuable service to the Alumni and Bicentennial offices
in the form of additions to their records.

Our activities to date have been two-fold: first, planning
the nature and extent of the information to be used, and the
make-up and distribution of the publication, and second, col-
lecting the necessary information.

Regarding the first, since the University lacks recent pre-
cedent for such an undertaking, we have attempted to avail
ourselves of the experience and knowledge of others. The
editor conferred with several authorities in the field and
studied reports of others. Directories of institutions com-
parable to Washington and Lee were carefully studied with
special attention given to the extent and presentation of the

information printed for each alumnus. A sample group of
alumni were canvassed regarding particular problems. The
results of these investigations were submitted to the Faculty
committee where they were analyzed and selected or discarded
on the basis of their application to our undertaking. Although
as yet no decision has been reached regarding type of print
and binding, and the manner of distribution, the committee
has decided that we will index our directory alphabetically,
geographically and by class; that the alphabetical and class
listings will include every alumnus since 1749; that the alpha-
betical listing will contain, when the information is available,
the class, degrees (both from Washington and Lee and other
institutions), residence years, descriptive occupational title,
and a preferred address for every living alumnus, and class,
degree and residence years for deceased alumni; that under-
graduates at the time of publication shall be included to ex-
tend the utility value of the book; that current inmates of in-
stitutions and honor system cases shall be included but
marked address unknown; and that the minimum prerequi-
site for inclusion will be the completion of one semester’s
work.

Our second activity has been more difficult. The directory
will be compiled from the material in the Alumni files. By
means of questionnaires which have been sent to every
alumnus for whom we have a good addrzss, we have been
attempting to eliminate from these files those inaccuracies
and omissions which are the inevitable and constant head-
ache of every Alumni organization. In view of the fact that
the quality of a publication of this sort is directly propor-
tional to the cooperation of the alumni in furnishing us with
accurate information about themselves, it is with regret that
we report that three separate solicitations have brought re-
sponses from only an approximate 6000 of the 10,000 involved,
and this in spite of repeated reminders and major simplifica-
tion of the questionnaire for the convenience of the user.
However, we are hopeful that current efforts to prompt these
dilatory individuals into response will bring results, so that
by press time we will have accurate information about every
alumnus.

Our accomplishments in the realm of locating some 1500
alumni whose addresses were unknown last October have
been more gratifying. Every conceivable source of informa-
tion as to the whereabouts of each of these men has been
tapped. Since the February issue of the Alumni Magazine

 

 

After Receiving Diplomas Graduates are Congratulated
by Families and Friends

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

carried an article devoted to this phase of our work, I will
not burden you with additional descriptions, except to re-
port that at this date we have cut that figure in half and are
hopeful of having no more than 5 per cent of our living alumni
“unlocated” at press time—a remarkably small percentage in
comparison with that of directories of other universities. In-
cidentally, you can be a major assistance to us in the achieve-
ment of that goal by furnishing this office with information
concerning the whereabouts of those classmates listed as “un-
located” in the recent letter from your class agent.

Although the many unknown factors make predictions
hazardous, we expect the directory to be ready for distribu-
tion next April, which will necessitate submitting the copy
to the printer early next Winter. The interim will be de-
voted to assembling, proof reading and correcting the copy,
and preparing the front matter—a very exacting and pains-
taking proposition.

That is your Alumni Directory. We predict and are mak-
ing every effort to produce a publication worthy of our Bi-
centennial celebration.

Respectfully submitted,

THOMAS C. WILSON

(11) Almand R. Coleman, ’260, gave the report on Univer-
sity Affairs for expenditure of funds received through the
Class Agent Plan, as follows:

Gentlemen:

Last year your Committee on University Affairs made
recommendations concerning the expenditure of funds raised
by the Class Agent Plan. As you are well aware, all contri-
butions by Alumni this year are designated for the Bicen-
tennial Fund. Accordingly it might seem inappropriate for
your Committee to be recommending projects for expendi-
ture when, for the time being, there are no funds of the
Class Agent Plan to be: expended.

It does seem appropriate, however, to report the action

taken on two of the recommedations by your committee of
last year:
1. The Committee recommended a placement bureau which
was established last vear. This bureau, under the direction of
Dr. Hinton of the University faculty, has during the past
year expanded its services and is adequately meeting the
needs listed by the Committee in its report.

 

 

The Pi Kappa Alphas Entertain at a Lawn Party

 

Crowd Gathers on the Bank of the James
Awaiting the Boat Race

 

2. The Committee last year recommended a program where-
by prominent Alumni would return to Washington and Lee
to lecture on their specialized fields to select groups. Such a
program, under the leadership of Dr. Gaines, is being ini-
tiated next year. Six prominent Alumni have agreed to re-
turn and lecture on their fields of interest.

In addition to these matters, your Committee wishes to
report that the University is and will be availing itself of the
services of its Alumni in planning the various convocations
and meetings celebrating the University’s Bicentennial year.

A. R. COLEMAN, Chairman

Committee

Harry E. Moran
Lewis F. Powell
A. R. Coleman

(12) An invitation from President and Mrs. Gaines was
extended to all alumni to attend the President’s reception
from 9 to 10 o'clock, Thursday, June 3.

(13) Retiring President Leon Harris expressed his per-
sonal appreciation for the cooperation of the alumni during
his term as their president.

On motion made and carried, the meeting adjourned.

H. K. YOUNG, Secretary

SUMMER SESSION

The 1948 summer session opened June 16 with a total en-
rollment of 373 students—241 in the Academic school and
132 in the School of Law.

The first six weeks academic term will end July 24, and
the second will begin two days later and run into early
September.

Representing the smallest group enrolled for interim
courses since the war, more than 90 per cent of the students
are veterans, in contrast to 60 per cent veteran enrollment
during the regular session recently completed.

The light registration is attributed to the fact that the
peak load of older veterans anxious to accelerate their courses
of study has been passed and that many Washington and Lee
students are engaged in summer studies at schools nearer
their homes.

 

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Faculty Changes

Faculty and staff changes, including the appointment of
nine new teachers, has been announced by President Fran-
cis P. Gaines.

The new appointments, all effective at the beginning of
the University’s 200th session in September are:

Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, professor of Spanish. Dr. Bar-
rett comes to W. and L. from the University of Kansas
where he has taught since 1941. He had previously taught
romance languages at Mercer, University of Virginia, Uni-
versity of Alabama, Princeton, and Furman. Professor Bar-
rett will fill the chair occupied by Professor John A. Graham,
who died in 1947,

Charles W. Williams, assistant professor of mathematics.
Professor Williams has held teaching positions at the Univer-
sity of Kentucky, Washington and Lee (1937-39), Armstrong
Junior College (Savannah), U. S. Navy Pre-Flight School at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, University of North Carolina,
and North Carolina State College. He is now working for
his doctor’s degree in topological dynamics at the University
of Virginia. Professor Williams replaces Professor Paul E.
Meadows, who has just been appointed chairman of the de-
partment of mathematics at Carroll College, Wisconsin.

William J. Cooley, Jr., instructor in German. Mr. Cooley
was graduated from the University of Illinois and did gradu-
ate work at Illinois and Princeton. He has spent four years
as an assistant in the German department at Princeton.

David Gerard, instructor in English. Mr. Gerard holds a
Bachelor of Arts degree from Lafayette college and will re-
ceive his Master of Arts degree at Rutgers in August. He has
been on the teaching staff at Rutgers while doing graduate
work.

J. Neville McArthur, instructor in Spanish. Mr. McArthur
received his A.B. degree from the College of William and
Mary, an A.M. from Middlebury College, and has done
further graduate study at the National University of Mexico.
He is now teaching at the University of Miami in Florida.

Miss Wanda Lee Spears, librarian in the School of Law.
Miss Spears received her law degree from the University of
Kentucky, where she was on the Kentucky Law Review staff.

Edward P. Whaley, instructor in chemistry. Mr. Whaley
holds a Bachelor of Science degree from VPI and is a candi-
date for a master’s degree there in August.

Lieutenant Kenneth C. Runquist, instructor in Physical
Education. Lt. Runquist is an instructor in physical education
at VMI and will be loaned for part time duties at W. and L,.

Charles O. Voigt, Jr., assistant professor of journalism.
Mr. Voigt, who has a B.A. degree from Stanford University
and an M.A. in journalism and political science from the same
institution, has had seven years experience with the San
Francisco Chronicle, the United Press in San Francisco and
Portland, and the Associated Press in Denver and Kansas
City. He briefly taught English at Kochi Junior College,
Kochi, Japan. For the past two years, since his wartime ser-
vice with the Marine Corps, he has been the publisher and
editor of two weekly newspapers in the Kansas City area.

Further appointments are expected to be announced dur-
ing the summer, President Gaines said, including a new di-
rector of dramatic activities.

At the same time, three promotions were made known by
Dr. Gaines. Dr. Lewis K. Johnson has been promoted from
associate professor to professor of commerce and business ad-
ministration; Dr. Charles W. Turner was promoted from in-

structor to assistant professor of history; and Edmund Berke-
ley from instructor to assistant professor of biology.

Dr. Gaines said that Dr. Glover D. Hancock, whose re-
tirement as Dean of the School of Commerce and Admini-
stration had been previously announced, has been requested to
serve as commerce school head through the 1948-49 session.

Other faculty withdrawals are:

Carlyle W. Barritt, instructor in Spanish since 1947; to
pursue graduate work at Harvard. Alvin L. Duckett, instruct-
or in history since 1946; to resume graduate work. Robert
B. Espy, instructor in French since 1946; to resume graduate
work.

John E. Husted, instructor in chemistry since 1946; plans
uncertain. William W. Jones, instructor in English since
1947; resume graduate work. Buford S. Stephenson, instructor
in German since 1946; to begin graduate work. James L. Price,
director of Religious Work since 1946; to attend Cambridge
University.

 

PORTRAITS

A portrait of Colgate W. Darden, Virginia’s World War
Il governor, was presented to the University in exercises in
Lee Chapel on May 21, completing a trilogy of paintings
of Virginia war governors.

Two previous presentations included portraits of Gover-
nor John Letcher, Virginia’s chief executive during the War
Between the States, and Governor Westmoreland Davis, who
served the Commonwealth during World War I.

The presentation was made by Captain Greenlee D. Letch-
er, of Lexington, son of the 1860's governor. Dr. George
Hutcheson Denny, president of Washington and Lee from
1902 until 1911, accepted the portrait on behalf of the uni-
versity. Dr. Denny was appointed in 1944 by Governor Dar-
den to serve as chairman of the Virginia Education Com-
mission.

Julian Lamar, of New York, painted the Darden portrait.

 

LEE PORTRAIT

An oil portrait of General Robert E. Lee, the work of
John Dabour, Smyrna-born painter, was presented to Wash-
ington and Lee University Saturday, May 29.

The portrait is the gift of Walter Herron Taylor, III, re-
tired Norfolk city director of public works, to W. and L.’s
Robert E. Lee Chapel.

Taylor presented the portrait to Dr. Francis P. Gaines,
president of the University. The donor is an alumnus of an-
other school, Virginia Military Institute.

The painting passed to Taylor from his father, the late
Walter H. Taylor, CSA, aide and adjutant to General Lee
throughout the War Between the States. The portrait came
originally from a member of the Byrd family and is believed
to have been executed by Dabour during Lee’s 10-day stay
in Baltimore in the spring of 1869.

Taylor said he decided to give the portrait to W. and L.
as a means of protecting it from possible damage and also to
permit a large number of persons to have opportunity to see
Lee as he was when he was president of Washington College,
forerunner of Washington and Lee.

 

WANTED
Wanted by the Alumni Office, 1 copy of the 1920 Calyx.

[ 12 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

With the Local Chapters

MINNEAPOLIS

The Minnesota alumni held a meeting at the Minikahda
Club in Minneopalis on the evening of June 26. About forty
alumni, friends and wives heard a talk by L. J. Desha, ’06,
and enjoyed a showing of the Washington and Lee alumni
movie. The meeting was noteworthy for the distances traveled
by many of those present, including Dr. and Mrs. Harry B.
Neel, ’28, Albert Lea, Minnesota; Dr. and Mrs. A. C. Broders,
Jr., ’38; Dr. and Mrs. Harley E. Cluxton, Jr., 37; Dr. and
Mrs. William Longan, °41; Dr. and Mrs. Albert A. Pollack,
*38—all from the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; Mr.
and Mrs. F. K. Yeomans, °42, Jamesville, Wisconsin; and
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Lewis Hall, ’24, Waconia, Minnesota.

Arrangements for the meeting were made by Compton
Broders and E. F. (Budd) Bobb, ’°43.

8 ee
BOSTON

On May 14 the first meeting of the Washington and Lee
alumni in the Boston metropolitan area was held at the Uni-
versity Club. Dr. and Mrs. W. A. Flick of the University
flew to Boston for the meeting which was held for the pur-
pose of organizing the alumni in behalf of the Bicentennial
Fund Drive and to set up a nucleus for an alumni association
for Boston.

Approximately thirty alumni and their wives attended
the cocktail and dinner meeting which was organized by Jack
Pierce, 30, chairman, and a committee made up of Tom Mc-
Cutcheon, ’40, Murray Both, ’40, and Bill Nutt, °43.

Mr. Charles F. Collins, past president of Boston Uni-
versity General Alumni Association welcomed Dr. and Mrs.
Flick on their first visit to Boston and offered his encourage-
ment to the group and its efforts.

The high spot of the evening was a talk by Dr. Flick, de-
scribing the hopes and plans of the Bicentennial program.
His up-to-date reporting on the progress of the Fund and of
the people and activities in Lexington was a fitting introduc-
tion to the movie about Washington and Lee in color and
sound, in itself, a heart warming climax to the enthusiastically
received evening.

2S eee

ROANOKE

Speaking to about 100 alumni and friends of Washing-
ton and Lee, at a dinner meeting on May 19, at the Hotel
Roanoke, Dr. Gaines outlined present conditions in connec-
tion with the Bicentennial program. Clifton A. Woodrum,
Jr., LL.B. 733, president of the local chapter, presided.

The Roanoke Times of May 21 carried the following edi-
torial:

The Traditions of W. and L.

“Roanoke alumni of Washington and Lee must surely
have thrilled with justifiable pride Wednesday evening as
they listened to Dr. Francis P. Gaines, the talented president
of their alma mater, eloquently recite in his own inimitable
way the impact of the heritage of George Washington and
Robert E. Lee on the lives of the graduates, students and
faculty members.

“Dr. Gaines is perhaps better qualified than any other living
man to tell the story, for he lives not only by but in the tra-

dition of Washington and Lee in his day to day guidance of
the affairs of the great university over in Lexington from
whose halls have come so many distinguished leaders in
public life and in the professions.

“The love of an alumnus for his alma mater is a very
wonderful thing. It is something that is a very part of his
being, even though he may not be wholly conscious of its ex-
istence. It nevertheless permeates his thoughts and influ-
ences his thinking to a degree far greater than he realizes.

“The sons of Washington and Lee have a truly great
heritage. The Bicentennial program to increase the institu-
tion’s endowment by $3,000,000 is one deserving of their en-
thusiastic and generous support. Dr. Gaines was the bearer
of a message Wednesday evening which should rekindle and
stimulate the fires of devotion in the breast of every alumnus.
It is a tremendous undertaking but an eminently deserving
one.”—Roanoke Times, May 21, 1948.

C0 ake es ee
RICHMOND

Approximately 75 alumni and their guests met for dinner
at the Country Club of Virginia on June 23, with Dr. At-
wood Wash, president of the Richmond alumni chapter,
presiding. Representatives from the University present were
Dr. L. J. Desha, Executive Director of the Bicentennial,
Professor Almand Coleman and Cy Young, Alumni Secre-
tary. The sound-color moving picture was shown. Dr. Desha
outlined the progress of the Bicentennial Fund campaign to
date. Officers elected for the coming year were Kenneth P.
Lane, °36, President, William Jacobs, ’29, Vice-President,
Cassell Adamson, °37, Secretary, and R. W. Jordan, ’26,

Treasurer.
* ed uk K 3k

CHICAGO

Approximately 70 alumni, parents, friends of the Uni-
versity and students matriculating this fall attended a din-
ner at the University Club of Chicago, May 21, to launch a
Bicentennial Fund drive among Chicago area alumni. One of
the last cities to undertake active participation in the drive
commemorating the 200th anniversary, Chicago is the center
of an alumni group of almost 200.

Guest of honor at the dinner and speaker for the evening
was Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students, who brought word
from Lexington on the postwar progress being made and the
outlook for the future. Following his talk those attending
witnessed the sound-color film, now familiar to most alumni
throughout the country.

 

JOHN A. GRAHAM MEMORIAL

The memory of John A. Graham, teacher and composer,
was honored with a remarkable memorial in Lexington on
Saturday, May 1. The occasion was sponsored by the Wash-
ington and Lee Bicentennial as a part of its program and was
participated in by many of Mr. Graham’s friends in numerous
ways.

The general plan and its details were inspired and directed
by Miss Mary Monroe Penick who had been working on it
for months.

[13 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1892

 

William C. Morton is
Clerk of the Circuit Court
of Berkeley County, West
Virginia. Home address: 526
West Burke Street, Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia.

William Folsom Moore,
after leaving Washington
and Lee, received the degree
of Bachelor of Laws from
the University of Texas. He
served as Chief Justice of

 

Let us remind you again that the material from which
these notes was compiled consists of letters received by
the class agents during last spring and summer and
from questionnaires returned by alumni during that
period. If the notes are not up-to-date, we would ap-
preciate any further information you can let us have. It
is especially important, now that an alumni directory
is being compiled, for publication during the Bicen-
tonnial year, that you keep us posted as to changes of
address, occupation, etc.

in his recent activities, ex-
cept that he has taken on
the task as Chairman of the
Board of Directors of the
Seaboard Air Line Railroad
Company and also the po-
sition of President of the
Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts, both of which are giv-
ing him a great deal of
trouble at a time when he is
trying to keep out of trouble.

J. Sam Slicer is practic-

 

 

the Supreme Court of Texas
in 1940. He is still active in the practice of his profession in

Paris, Texas, with offices in the First National Bank Building.

1893

Judge Jake Fisher is serving his 36th year as Judge of the
Fourteenth Judicial Circuit of West Virginia.

1894

Edmund Pendleton Coles, Class Agent for 1894, became
connected with the General Electric Company in July 1893
and continued with this company until his retirement in
April, 1943. Home address: 117 Queens Road, Charlotte,
North Carolina.

Dr. James B. Bullitt is now retired after fifty years of
teaching, thirty-five years of which were spent in the Medi-
cal Department at the University of North Carolina. He is
Emeritus Professor of Pathology at Chapel Hill.

1896

Emmet A. (Gus) Quarles is in his seventeenth year with
the National Industrial Conference Board, 247 Park Avenue,
New York, New York. He is married, has two sons and a
daughter, and lives at 139 East 7th Street, Plainfield, New
Jersey.

1898

Colonel Arthur M. Shipp, United States Army Retired, is
a faithful alumnus of Washington and Lee.
He graduated from the Virginia Military In-
stitute, of which his fatheer was Superintend-
ent for 50 years, in 1897, entering Washington
and Lee the following year. He and his wife
and daughter, elizabeth, are making their
home in Lexington, Virginia.

C. W. F. Spencer is an attorney-at-law
Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Norman Fitzhugh is a member of the firm
of Norman Fitzhugh and Company, Certified
Public Accountants, with offices at 509 Kana- =
wha Banking and Trust Building, Charleston,
West Virginia.

Henry W. Anderson is a member of the woe
firm of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and
Moore, Electric Building, Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He writes that there has been no change

ahal

——

. —as-\
ll [erren | |
War ayy te rreas | Bey)

 

ing law in Atlanta, Georgia,
with offices in the Chamber of Commerce Building. His other
activities center in his connection with the Atlanta Hunt
Club. He reports a successful season last winter, taking part
in a live fox hunt once a week and a drag hunt every two
weeks. He has an excellent hunter who jumps beautifully and
takes him safely over all the jumps.

Edward A. O’Neal, President of American Farm Bureau
Federation since 1931, has recently retired and is living in
his home town, Florence, Alabama, at 221 West Tuscaloosa
Street.

1899

James Mullen is practicing law and connected with many
business interests in Richmond, Virginia. Since 1913 he has
specialized in Federal Tax practice. Address: 1001 East Main
Street, Richmond, Virginia.

1902

Volney M. Brown, member of the law firm of Kemp,
Smith, Brown and White, State National Bank Building, E]
Paso, Texas, had a delightful trip with his wife to Charleston,
South Carolina, Williamsburg and Richmond, Virginia. He
was unable to make Lexington on this trip, but promises to
return to the campus before long. We hope this will be dur-
ing the Bicentennial year in 1949,

William T. Leffell is living in Abingdon, Virginia. His son
William Otis, is a B.S. of the class of 1934.

Osman E. Swartz has been General Coun-
United Carbon Company, Charleston,

sel
thy West Virginia, since 1928. Address: Box 1913,
¢ Charleston 27, West Virginia.

W. Dewey Cooke is Vice-President and
Secretary-Treasurer, Southern Fertilizer and

    

 

\ Chemical Company. He is director of both of
these companies and also of Georgian Port
Company. Address: Box 1158, Savannah,
ea | Georgia.
i 1903
= Dr. C. C. McNeill received the A.B. de-

gree from Washington and Lee in 1903 and
the honorary degree of D.D. in 1926. He also

va | received the B.D. degree from Louisville,
MH Wabi Kentucky, Seminary in 1913. Address: P. O.
a peal Box 268, Pompano, Florida.

Hh Mi )Mes

R. T. Flanary is now in the wholesale hard-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ware business in Norton, Virginia. He is President, Clear
Water Improvement Company and the First National Bank
of Wise, Virginia, and Vice-President, Norton Realty Cor-
poration-and First National Bank, Norton, Virginia. Address:
844 Park Avenue, Norton, Virginia.

Rev. Samuel McP. Glasgow, D.D., served in large pas-
torates as a Presbyterian Minister in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, 1916-1920; Knoxville, Tennessee, 1920-1931 and the In-
dependent Presbyterian Church, Savannah, Georgia, 1931-
1944. He is now retired and living at 829 Ardsley Road, Char-
lotte, North Carolina.

Rev. Cary R. Blain has been serving as a Home Mission-
ary of the Presbyterian Church in various communities for
many years. He is now working in and out of Circleville, West
Virginia. Snow, cold and bad roads interfered seriously with
his work during the past winter, but he has a full program
of five Bible Schools and three evangelistic meetings for the
summer.

Rev. J. M. B. Gill is a clergyman of the Episcopal Church,
llow serving in the Missionary District of Eastern Oregon.
He was a missionary of the Episcopal Church in China from
1909 to 1924. Address: 613 S-E Byers Avenue, Pendleton,
Oregon.

William J. Turner, after graduation at Washington and
Lee, was with the Braden Copper Company, Rancagua,
Chile, from 1909 to 1944. He is now living in New York and
is a Director of the Braden Copper Company. He is married,
has two sons and a granddaughter, a year old.

1904

Judge Julian F. Bouchelle is Judge of the Circuit Court
of Kanawha County, West Virginia, having been reelected
to this office in 1944. Address: Kanawha County Court House,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Dr. John Henry Day is minister of the Seventh Baptist
Church, Baltimore, Maryland. He has done considerable
broadcasting of religious messages this past year and preached
the Centennial Sermon in old Freemason Street Church in
Norfolk where his parents were members before he was born
and where he spent his boyhood and early manhood.

Dr. W. Cole Davis, now retired from the Army Medical
Corps, is living at 5 Lewis Street, Lexington, Virginia.

J. B. Akers, class agent for 1904, is Chief Engineer, South-
ern Railway System. Address: P. O. Box 1808, Washington
13, D. C. His home is at 3415 Fulton Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

E. W. Poindexter has been practicing law in Roanoke,
Virginia, since November, 1904, under the firm name of Poin-
dexter and Poindexter, Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke,
Virginia.

Edward C. Miller was Business Manager, Virginia Poly-
technic Institute, from 1922 to 1945, when he retired. Ad-
dress: Blacksburg, Virginia.

1905

Haney B. Conner is Executive Vice-President of the Don-
aldsonville State Bank, Donaldsonville, Louisiana.

Dr. Robert A. Lapsley received the A.B. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1905 and the honorary degree of
D.D. in 1924. He also holds the degree of B.D. from Union

He has
Roanoke,

been
Vir-

Richmond, Virginia.
Church,

Theological Seminary,
pastor of the First Presbyterian
ginia, since 1930.

J. D. Hobbie, Jr., is president of Hobbie Brothers Com-
pany, music store, in Roanoke, Virginia. This has been a
family business since 1881.

Judge Walter G. Riddick, class agent for 1905, is Federal
Judge of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, composed of
the states of Arkansas, Nevada, lowa, Minnesota, Nebraska,
North Dakota and South Dakota. He received the honorary
degree of LL.D. from Washington and Lee in 1944, and was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1946. His home is in Little Rock,
Arkansas.

1906

Brent E. Clark, after 40 years of active mining and high-
way engineering, has retired and is operating the James Ho-
tel, which he purchased eight years ago. His three children—
three grand-children and the hotel keep him on the move.
Address: The James Hotel, 219 N.W. 4th Street, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma.

Basil Manly, Vice-President and Director of Southern
Natural Gas Company, has recently changed his business
address to 605 Southern Building, Washington 5, D. C. Prior
to this connection he served as Vice-Chairman, Federal Pow-
er Commission, 1933-1936; 1942-1943, and as Chairman, 1944-
1945.

Claude P. Light is practicing law and is Commissioner in
Chancery, Wood County, West Virginia. He recently served
eight years as Prosecuting Attorney of Wood County. Ad-
dress: Citizens Bank Building, Parkersburg, West Virginia.

George W. P. Whip is still practicing law under the firm
name of Lord and Whip, Munsey Building, Baltimore 2,
Maryland.

Milton Herman has been with the Statesville Cotton Mills,
Inc., Statesville, North Carolina, since 1944. After gradua-
tion here he received the LL.B. degree from Columbia Uni-
versity, New York. His home is at 500 Hawthorne Drive,
Danville, Virginia.

L. J. Desha, Bayle Professor of Chemistry, Washington
and Lee, is serving as Executive Director of the Bicenten-
nial Program.

John W. Eggleston, class agent for 1906, is Judge of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, with offices in City
Hall Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia.

1908

The Academic Class of 1908 celebrated their 40th anni-
versary at the University during Finals, the following mem-
bers being present: Earle K. Paxton, Mac Minetree, Abe Som-
erville, Clivie Carpenter, James M. Godwin, Donald P. Boyer,
Montague Lippitt, Bob Glass, William P. Hooper, Russell
R. Gray, Alan Porter Lee, Dr. Grover M. Batten and Ben
Smith.

1909

L. J. Boxley is in the heavy construction business and
operation of stone quarries, Boxley Building, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. He is a Director of the Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company, Old Dominion Fire Insurance Company, and
Colonial National Bank.

[15 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

S. Floyd Landreth, Galax, Virginia, was re-elected last fall
to the State Senate for another four-year term. He is Presi-
dent and Director of the First National Bank of Galax.

Reuben Ragland is a member of the firm of Ragland,
Kurtz and Lawton, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, Suite
608 Consolidated Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He writes
that he now has a grandson, about 14 month old, and is there-
fore in the Grandfather class.

Daniel K. Sadler was engaged in the general practice of
Law in Santa Fe, New Mexico, until his election to the Su-
preme Court of New Mexico, in November, 1930, and twice
re-elected since that time.

J. J. Forrer is still the Maintenance Engineer for the Vir-
ginia Department of Highways, which position he has held
for the past 27 years. He became connected with the Virginia
Department of Highways in 1917, working in various capaci-
ties, making a total of 31 years of service with the Depart-
ment. His two sons and a son-in-law were in the service in
World War II, and were discharged with the ranks of Cap-
tain in the Army, Senior Grade Lieutenant in the Navy, and
Senior Grade Lieutenant in the Coast Guard. He has six
grandchildren.

1910

James McKim Bell is General Consultant for a public
utility management company, “Cobast,” operating the sub-
sidiary companies of Brazilian Traction, Light and Power
Company Limited of Toronto, Canada, with which companies
he has been affiliated for nearly forty years. He spends five
months of the year in the United States and Canada and the
other seven in Brazil. His address is: Caixa Postal-751-Rio
de Janeiro.

Orange W. Richardson is Vice-President of Duquesne
Lumber Company, Columbia Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania. He is class agent this year for 1910-L.

Wyatt C. Hedrick is President of Wyatt C. Hedrick,
Architect and Engineers, with offices in Fort Worth, Hous-
ton, and Dallas, Texas. Address: 1005 First National Bank
Building, Fort Worth, Texas.

Dr. Hugh J. Hagan took his M.D. from Johns-Hopkins
after graduation here and has been practicing his profession
continuously in Roanoke, Virginia, with the exception of two
years in service in World War I. His two oldest sons, both
graduates in medicine, served respectively in the European
and Japanese theaters of World War II. His youngest son
is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Miles Cary Johnston was graduated from Roanoke College
with the A.B. degree, before entering Washington and Lee,
taking his B.S. here in 1910, and C.E. from Cornell Univer-
sity in 1912. He is a partner in the firm of Carneal and John-
ston, Architects and Engineers, Atlantic Life Building, Rich-
mond 21, Virginia.

Robert P. Ashley is Vice-President Liberty Mutual In-
surance Company, 175 Berkeley Street, Boston, Massachu-
setts.

Rev. Branson L. Wood is minister of the Presbyterian
Church, Iron Gate, Virginia. He has charge of a group of
country churches where the Cow Pasture and James Rivers
meet to form the James.

C. W. (Bill) Streit, Jr., is Vice-President and General
Sales Manager of Southern Cement Company, Birmingham,

Alabama, “trying to run what part of the business the Gov-
ernment doesn’t run.” He has been with this organization
since leaving college.

James W. Rader is still in charge of The National Park
Service for Fort McHenry, the birthplace of the National
Anthem. Recently the Federal Government has acquired
Hampton Mansion National Historic Site and it fell in his
lap to look after that also. Hampton is the Georgian home of
the Ridgeleys, located about two miles from Towson, Mary-
land. Address: Fort McHenry National Monument and His-
toric Shrine, Baltimore 30, Maryland.

Karl Kregloe, after leaving Washington and Lee, taught
school in Virginia for several years. For the past 12 years he
has been with the Roanoke Merchants Association, Roanoke,
Virginia, of which he is now Secretary. Recently he has had
a severe illness, necessitating various operations, but is now
in excellent shape, bass and trout fishing, hunting and play-
ing golf two or three times a week. He has two sons and a
daughter, all married and living in Roanoke, and constant-
ly engaged in making him a grandfather.

H. A. Derr, class agent for 1910-A, is President of Van-
guard Paints and Finishes, Inc., (Manufacturers of Paints,
Varnishes, Lacquers, etc.). After graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee with the B.S. degree he became a chemist
with E. I. DuPont de Nemours Company in 1911. In 1939 he
established his own manufacturing business as above.

1911

L. L. Humphreys, class agent for 1911-A, is President of
the Security National Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma.

1912

Freeman H. Hart has been Professor in the Department
of Humanities, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
since 1946. After graduation from Washington and Lee he
received the degree of M.A. from Harvard in 1923 and that
of Ph.D. from Columbia in 1942.

Robert Russell Blake is a salesman for Dulengue Packing
Company, living at 834 Piedmont Avenue, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.

Dr. Edward Lyons, received his Ph.D. from Johns-Hop-
kins after graduation here and served as Chemist in various
industries before his connection with Park-Davis and Com-
pany, lasting 26 years. He is now retired and living at 1331
Kast Boundary Street, Gainesville, Florida.

1913

William A. Hyman, received the LL.B. degree from Co-
lumbia University after graduation from Washington and
Lee. He is practicing law at 111 Fulton Street, New York 7,
New York.

Alexander Sloan operates The Sloan Glass Company,

manufacturers of cut glass and stemware, Cumberland, Mary-
land.

Rev. William T. Hanzsche, D.D., is minister of the Pros-
pect Street Presbyterian Church, Trenton, New Jersey. He
has had a distinguished career as a radio broadcaster on na-
tional hookups. He is Chairman of the Board of “Presbyter-
ian Life,” official publication of the Northern Presbyterian
Church.

[ 16 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1914

Merriman S. Smith received the degree of B.A. from
Hampden-Sydney in 1911, and LL.B. from Washington and
Lee in 1914. He was appointed Judge of the West Virginia
Court of Claims in July, 1945. Address: P. O. Box 633, Blue-
field, West Virginia. He is class agent this year for Law-’14.

Egbert B. Doggett is with the Bethlehem Steel Company,
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, as Actuary—Pension and Relief
Plans. Address: 448 Vine Street, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
He has been with Bethlehem Steel since 1920.

1916

Clarence J. Brown, member of Congress from the 7th Dis-
trict of Ohio, was the key-note speaker for the Mock Repub-
lican National Convention, and writes his class agent that
he greatly enjoyed the visit to the campus. He says: “It was
a great show and brought the school a great deal of favorable
publicity.”

Selden S. McNeer is a member of the law firm of Camp-
bell and McNeer, First Huntington National Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia. Charles Bagley, LL.B., 42, neph-
ew of Battle, ’16, is working with the firm. Selden was in
Lexington for Finals for the graduation of his son, Selden,
Jr., with the A.B. degree, going on to graduation from the
Law School next year.

Charles T. Herndon, Jr., took his A.B. degree at Roanoke
College before entering Washington and Lee, where he was
graduated in Law in 1916. Organizer and Director, Sullivan
County Bank, Kingsport, Tennessee, and President of Gen-
eral Sand Company, Inc., he is practicing his profession in
Kingsport. Address: P. O. Drawer 109, Kingsport, Tennessee.

Vivian L. Page is in the family firm—father, brothers and
son—under the name of Page, Page and Page, Attorneys
and Counsellors at Law, Norfolk, Virginia. Now inactive in
politics, after serving as a member of the Virginia House
of Delegates, 1924-1936; member of the State Senate, 1936-
1942. However, his son Walter, ’39, is carrying on the family
tradition as a member of the Virginia House of Delegates,
having served his first term in January, 1948.

Parker W. Buhrman has been in the Foreign Service Di-
vision, Department of State since 1918, serving in fourteen
countries and travelling in most of the European and Asiatic
countries. He has recently returned to this country from
Poland and is now assigned in Washington, where he will be
stationed until his retirement in the Autumn. Address: Uni-
versity Club, Washington, D. C.

J. R. Manning is President of National Loan and Insur-
ance Co., Inc., 12 West Second Street, Roanoke Rapids,
North Carolina.

Earl B. Rose, class agent for 1916-L, is practicing law at
537 North Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky, and lives in
Beattyville, Kentucky.

Colonel N. C. Evans, after serving in World War I, was
recalled to active duty as Captain, A. U.S., in June, 1942, and
separated as Lientenant-Colonel in June, 1946. In April, 1947,
he was recalled to active duty for assignment with the De-
partment of State. After his return to this country he was
hospitalized for some time but is now entirely recovered and
living at The Puritan, 2620 Gladstone Avenue, Louisville,
Kentucky.

1918

John L. McChord, class agent for 1918 is a member of the
law firm of Calfee, Fogg, McChord and Halter, Union Com-
merce Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio.

1921

‘John Bell, member of the law firm of Knight, Thompson,
Knight and Bell, entered this organization in 1925 and has
been with it since that time. Their offices are in Stovall’s Pro-
fessional Building, Tampa 1, Florida.

Judge B. F. Howard is practicing law in Welch, West Vir-
ginia, with offices in McDowell County National Bank Build-
ing. He served as Judge of the Eighth Judicial Circuit of
West Virginia, 1930-1936, and as Mayor of the City of Welch,
1940-1944.

Carlton E. Jewett is Judge of the Police Court of Rich-
mond, Virginia. No doubt he is kept busy as he says that last
year he disposed of 39,542 cases in the Richmond Police
Court and this year, four and a half months, there have been
20,000 before the court, so it looks as if 1948 will again set
a record.

C. G. Gordon Moss, after graduation here, received the
degree of M.A. from Yale in 1926, and that of Ph.D. in 1932.
He is teaching history at Virginia State Teachers College,
Farmville, Virginia. He writes: “I continue to lead the aca-
deme life teaching history to possible future wives of W. and
L. men. They must be interested, I mean the W. and L.
men, because it seems to give me some privilege that I am
one.” He says he is also busy trying to prepare sons for the
classes of °59 and ’68 respectively at Washington and Lee,
and when he writes those dates it makes an octogenarian out
of him.

George D. Felix has been appointed assistant right of
way engineer for the Virginia State Highway Department,
effective September 1, 1948. In this newly-created position
he will be responsible for road work in Alleghany, Augusta,
Bath, Clarke, Frederick, Highland, Page, Rockbridge, Rock-
ingham, Shenandoah and Warren Counties. Mr. Felix has
been in charge of the Staunton highway construction district
since 1946.

1922

Edgar Jackson resigned his position as teacher in the
Maury High School in March, 1947, after 21% years service
there. He returned to his old home town where he is editor
and part owner of The Tidewater News. Address: 504 North
High Street, Franklin, Virginia.

R. Bleakley James, class agent for 1922-L, is an Attorney
for the Veterans Administration, Munitions Building, Wash-
ington, D.C. His son, R. Bleakley, Jr., is a student in the
Washington and Lee Law School. Home address: 930 North
Irving Street, Arlington, Virginia.

1923
Barron O. (Buzz) Faulconer is practicing law in Lexing-
ton, Kentucky. Address: 710 Central Avenue, Lexington,
Kentucky.

Thomas Jean Ellis received his LL.B. degree from Wash-
ington University, St. Louis, after graduation here. He is
now practicing law at 102 South Monroe Street, Tallahassee,
Florida. He served as Assistant State Attorney General of
Florida in 1939-1940.

[17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1924

Bayard L. Malone, Jr., is associated with Ed W. Harris
in the practice of Law, with offices in the Florida National
Bank Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.

S. Arthur Glixon is practicing law at 551 Fifth Avenue,
New York 17, New York. He has a very interesting hobby
which occupies much of his spare time. He has been pro-
ducing 16 mm. films with professional staffs, and is now
working on his third picture which covers the field of voca-
tional guidance. He has seen the Washington and Lee pic-
ture, “Two Centuries of Service,” and thinks it is very good.

J. Melvin Lovelace, class agent for 1924-Law, is Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for the City of Norfolk, Virginia, and
Director of the Suffolk Hotel Corporation. Address: Box
253, Suffolk, Virginia.

Alfred H. Griffith is Mayor of the City of Buena Vista,
Virginia.

1925

V. J. Kreienbaum is Manager of Greenville Manufactur-
ing Company—lumber and boxes, Emporia, Virginia. He has
been in the manufacture of lumber products ever since leav-
ing school. His son will be a freshman at Washington and Lee
this fall.

1926

Lieutenant-Colonel Robert C. Yates is professor in the
mathematics department, U. §S. Military Academy, West
Point, New York.

Charles Waller Mathews is manager of a quartzite mine
in Waynesboro, Virginia. Address: 2152 Park Station,
Waynesboro, Virginia.

1927

Rev. R. Wilbur Simmons, Minister of Park Congrega-
tional Church, Greeley, Colorado, represented the Univer-
sity at the inauguration of Dr. William Robert Ross as Presi-
dent of Colorado State College of Education, in May. Dr.
Ross is an active member of Mr. Simmons’ church who
gave the invocation and pronounced the benediction at the
inauguration.

(Class Notes by George E. Burks, ’27-A)

William M. Pope spent 3% years in the Army Air Force.
Bill is glad to be back again on his job with Scott and String-
fellow, Investment Bankers and Brokers. He has a new home
at 8905 River Road, Richmond, Virginia.

Luther H. Redcay is still living along the Susquehanna
River and enjoying it. He is Executive Director of the Sny-
der County Board of Assistance in Pennsylvania’s unified
public assistance program. Luther is married and has two
daughters. Address: 12 South Front Street, Selinsgrove,
Pennsylvania.

Zack Rogers and his attractive wife, Helen, were guests
in our home last August. They travel all over the United
States. Zack is sales manager for the Gilbert Hyde Chick
Company who make orthopedic specialties. Address: 3106
Avalon Road, Berkeley, California.

J. Arthur Smith, Jr., is special agent for the Prudential
Insurance Company. J. Arthur Smith, III, his first child was
born February 5, 1946, and Arthur is already making plans

to send him to W. and L. Address: 314 Ouachita Bank Build-
ing, Monroe, Louisiana.

George W. Summerson is manager of the Hotel General
Shelby, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. George has been in the
hotel business for the past 18 years, operating in North Caro-
lina until 1939 when he went to Bristol. He and his wife have
two girls and a boy. Drop in to see George if you are in
Bristol.

Dr. Herbert Virgin, Jr., after leaving W. and L. went to
Northwestern University Medical School and specialized in
Orthopedic Surgery. Later, went to Madison, Wisconsin, to
practice and married Frances True, a graduate of Smith Col-
lege. The Virgins moved to Florida because of sickness. He
is consulting Orthopedic Surgeon for Pan American World
Airways, Miami Shipbuilding, Merrill-Stevens, some rail-
roads and Chief of the Orthopedic Section of St. Francis
Hospital. They live in Coconut Grove and have three chil-
dren. Address: Huntington Building, Miami, Florida.

J. C. Wilbourn, our former class agent, served in the Navy
during the war and returned to civilian life in January, 1946.
After his release in Washington he and his family stopped
over for a short visit in Lexington. He is now a partner in
the law firm of Wilbourn, Miller and Wilbourn, Citizens Na-
tional Bank Building, Meridian, Mississippi.

William Lyne Wilson is practicing law in Lynchburg af-
ter four years in the Navy. Billy was a Lieutenant Command-
er and shore based in the Pacific at Hollandia, New Guinea,
Olonpago, Luzon, P.I., and on the staff of Commander
Philippine Sea Frontier at Manila. Address: 327 Woodland
Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

George E. Burks, your class agent, is owner of Hummel,
Meyer and Burks—one of the oldest insurance agencies in
Louisville. He represents the Home and Hartford Insurance
Companies. He married Dorothy Hereford, a Wellesley
graduate and they have two daughters, Betty 7, and Anne,
4, and a son born September 24, 1947. Address: 405 Wash-
ington Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

1928

Arthur P. Bondurant is Vice-President and Advertising
Director, Glenmore Distilleries Company, Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He was in the Air Corps for four years, serving in
all parts of the world, and coming out a Lieutenant-Colonel.
He married Frances Lee Day and they have a daughter, Mary
Chiles, born November 23, 1946.

Oldham Clarke is a member of the law firm of Allen, Mc-
Elwain, Dinning, Clarke and Ballentine, Kentucky Home
Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky. His son, Ernest Hoge,
will enter the freshman class here in September and he and
his family drove to Lexington in April for a visit to the
campus.

Norman R. Crozier, class agent for 1928, is a member of
the firm of Bowyer, Gray, Thomas, Crozier and Jaffe, at-
torneys, 610 Southwestern Life Building, Dallas 1, Texas.

Joe B. Clower, Jr., is minister of the First Presbyterian
Church, Morganton, North Carolina. He reports encourag-
ing progress in his work, and also in his hobby, which is col-
lecting American coins. Address: P. O. Box 335, Morganton,
North Carolina.

Dr. Lester A. Brown, after graduation from Washington
and Lee, received his M.D. from Emory University in 1932,

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

He served in the Army Medical Corps from 1943 until his
discharge, with the rank of Major, in 1946. He is now prac-
ticing his profession at 478 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta,
Georgia, specializing in Otology.

Reed Johnston is a member of the firm of Johnston and
Lunger, stock brokers, Room 1900, One Wall Street, New
York, New York. He married Helen Austin in 1933 and they
have two sons, John A. and William R.

Wilmot L. Harris is Vice-President in charge of sales and
advertising for Mail Pouch Tobacco Company, manufacturers
of chewing and smoking tobaccos, plus cigars. He married
Betty Bloch in 1934 and they have two daughters and a son.
Address: Mail Pouch Tobacco Company, Wheeling, West
Virginia.

Joseph B. Copper has been in Industrial Engineering and
Accounting fields of the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad
Company, the United States Steel Corporation’s southern
subsidiary, for the past 12 years. Since June 1, 1948, he has
been located with the headquarters of the U. S. Steel Cor-
poration at the Koppers Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
in the position of Division Chief Industrial Engineer. Ad-
dress: 436 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania.

J. Davis Reed, Jr., class agent for 1928-A, after gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee, received the LL.B. degree
from Harvard Law School in 1931. He is practicing law and
is Trial Justice for Princess Anne County, Virginia. Address:
515 National Bank of Commerce Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

1929

Charles L. Claunch, class agent for ’29-Law, is a member
of the firm of Taber, Chambliss, Swafford and Claunch,
Chattanooga Bank Building, Chattanooga 2, Tennessee.

Philip R. Becker is a member of the law firm of Coolidge,
Becker and Wall, specializing in corporation, tax, probate
and real estate law, with offices on the 12th Floor of the Cal-
lahan Building, Dayton 2, Ohio.

Allen Morgan is executive Vice-President and director of
the First National Bank of Memphis, Tennessee.

P. C. (Bunny) Whitlock is with the West Virginia Pulp
and Paper Company, Covington, Virginia. He married Emily
Owens Luke in 1927 and they have a son, William Allen, and
a daughter, Emily Jane.

Joseph L. Lockett, after receiving an A.B. and M.A. de-
gree from Washington and Lee, got an LL.B. degree from
the University of Texas, and is now practicing law at 2201
Gulf Building, Houston 2, Texas.

1930

Thomas D. Shumate is a member of the law firm of Shu-
mate and Shumate, Irving, Kentucky. His father, Judge Hun-
ter M. Shumate, member of the same firm, is an LL.B., ’16
Thomas D. Shumate is City Attorney, Irving, Kentucky.

F. L. Shipman is still practicing law in the firm of Ship-
man and Shipman, 320 West Main Street, Troy, Ohio.

E. I. Bostwick is a Claims Adjuster with The Travellers
Insurance Company, 801 Mutual Building, Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He has been with this company since graduation here.

Henry F. Bullard is President of Bullard and Sprott, Inc.,
Box 163, Lake Wales, Florida.

Kenneth L. Keil is District Manager, Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company, Springfield, Illinois. He has been in the
insurance business since graduation here.

1931

Walter E. Hoffman is a candidate for election to Congress
on the Republican ticket from the Second Congressional Dis-
trict of Virginia. He is a member of the law firm of Breedin
and Hoffman, National Bank of Commerce Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia.

James B. Martin is a member of the law firm of DeHardit
and Martin, Gloucester, Virginia.

John C. Smith is Vice-President of The Northern Trust
Company, 50 South LaSalle, Chicago 90, Illinois. He took a
job with this company immediately after graduation and over
the years advanced to his present position.

Paul Allen Hornor is President and General Manager of
Hornor Brothers, Engineers, and President Maureen Coal
Company, Clarksburg, West Virginia. He married Frances
Winfield in 1932 and they have three sons, Paul Allen, Jr.,
Buckner Winfield and James Yard.

Gilmore N. Nunn and his father, J. Lindsay Nunn, own
and operate the Nunn Stations, Southern Network, Incor-
porated, with stations in Lexington, Kentucky, Knoxville,
Tennessee, Huntington, West Virginia, and Mobile, Alabama.
He also has business connections in real estate, oil and
creameries. Address: Radio Building, Lexington, Kentucky.

Frank T. Bready has been in the food brokerage business
at 100 Hudson Street, New York, since 1934, and a partner in
the Trident Brokerage Company, at this address since 1939.
His home is at 136 East Gorgas Lane, Mt. Airy, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

1932

R. L. (Snake) McKinney, Jr., is in the general insurance
business in Denison, Texas. He married Mary Forrest in
1940 and they have a young son Roy Leighton, III, born
September 4, 1942.

Dr. William D. Hoyt is now professor of History at Loy-
ola College, Baltimore, Maryland. He is a member of the
program committee of the American Association for State
and Local History, which will meet in Raleigh, North Caro-
lina, in October.

1933

William F. Stone received the degree of LL.M. from the
Atlanta Law School, in 1935, after graduation from the
Washington and Lee Law School. He has been practicing
law in Martinsville, Virginia, since 1936. He married Mary
Courtney in 1944 and they have a son, William F., Jr., born
August 21, 1946.

Jerry Framptom, before graduation from the Washington
and Lee Law School, received the A.B. degree from Wash-
ington College. He practiced Law in Baltimore, Maryland,
for three years and then became member of the firm and own-
er of J. J. Framptom and Son, Funeral Directors, Federals-
burg, Maryland.

W. J. Brooks was transferred last January from Memphis,
Tennessee, where he was District Manager, Pontiac Division,
General Motors, to Atlanta, Georgia, where he now holds the
position of Business Management Manager for Pontiac Mo-

[ 19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tor Division, Atlanta Zone. His territory covers the entire
southeast including Alabama, Georgia, East Tennessee, North
Carolina, and Florida. Address: 301 Rhodes-Haverty Build-
ing, Atlanta 3, Georgia.

E. Marshall Nuckols has been Secretary of the Campbell
Soup Company, 100 Market Street, Camden, New’ Jersey,
since 1942,

John Hoffman is a buyer in fashion lines for the merchan-
dise department of J. C. Penny Company, 330 West 34th
Street, New York. He has recently built his own home in
Westchester County. Address: South State Road, Briarcliff
Road, Briarcliff Manor, New York.

S. G. (Stuge) Edmonds, after living in Washington and
Arlington for thirteen years, has moved his family back to
Winchester, Virginia, where he is Supervisor of Shipping and
Receiving Departments for the American Brakelock Division
of the American Brake Shoe Company, Winchester’s newest
industry. Address: 334 West Cecil Street, Winchester, Vir-
ginia.

Charles F. Suter, serving as First Vice-President, was
elected President of the District of Columbia Life Under-
writers Association, at the Association’s annual meeting at
Washington’s Shoreham Hotel on May 12, 1948. He has
been in the life insurance business since 1935, all of that
time with the Berkshire Life. He is now Assistant General
Agent for his company. Address: 4909 North Rock Spring
Road, Arlington, Virginia.

Edwin W. Chittum is Principal of Northview High School,
Norfolk, Virginia. After graduation from Washington and
Lee he received his M.A. from the University of Virginia in
1940, and has been teaching continuously since that time.

Joe B. Wharton, Jr., received his M.D. from Tulane Uni-
versity Medical School in 1936. After three and a half years
in the service, 30 months of which was spent in the Pacific,
he is now a member of the firm, Doctors Wharton and Whar-
ton, Physicians and Surgeons, 312 North Jefferson, El Do-
rado, Arkansas.

Luther F. Violett has been employed continuously by
Dun and Bradstreet, Inc., since June 25, 1936. He is now
connected with the New York office at 920 Broadway, New
York, New York.

E. Walter Snydor entered Washington and Lee as a
sophomore in 1931. He received his B.S. in 1934, and B.M.E.
in 1947 from New York University. He is in the piping con-
tracting business and is Treasurer of Snyder Plumbing and
Heating Corporation at 333 West 52nd Street, New York 19,
New York.

Thomas D. Anderson has been associated with the law
firm of Andrews, Kurth, Campbell and Bradley (formerly
Andrews, Kelly, Kurth and Campbell) continuously since
September 1934, except for four years in the U.S. Naval In-
telligence Service, attaining the rank of Lieutenant Com-
mander. Address: Box 2609, Houston, Texas.

Thornton G. Berry, Jr., graduated from V. M. I., with the
A.B. degree in 1928, and from the Washington and Lee Law
School, with the degree of LL.B., in 1934. He has been in
private practice in Welch, West Virginia, since 1945. He was
a Lieutenant-Commander, U. S. Navy, from 1942 to 1945, in
the North Pacific.

Albert M. Fowler is practicing law and managing the Ho-
tel Belleville, Belleville, Illinois.

1935

William Schuhle, class agent for 1935-A, is teaching his-
tory, government and sociology in Adrian College, Adrian,
Michigan. He married Mary Elizabeth Martin in 1945 and
they have a son, William, Jr., born February 3, 1947.

Sam B. Cantey, III, is Assistant Cashier with the First
National Bank of Fort Worth, Texas. He was married April
20), 1940, to Betsy Lee and they have a son, Sam, IV, born
October 21, 1941, and daughter, Ambler, born January 15,
1945. Home address: 324 Eastwood Drive, Fort Worth i;
Texas.

Don Wallis is Manager, Interstate Securities Company,
37 North 3rd Street, Columbus, Ohio.

William Rogers Sphar, Jr., is Manager, Sphar and Com-
pany, and Sphar and Gay Seed Company, Winchester, Ken-
tucky. Address: P. O. Box 95, Winchester, Kentucky.

1936

Alfred Kahn, Jr., received his M.D. from Harvard Medical
School in 1940. Except for army service, 1942-1943, he has
been taking graduate work in internal medicine since 1940
and is now practicing his profession with offices in the
Donaghey Building, Little Rock, Arkansas. He married Redith
A. White in 1941 and they have a son and a daughter.

Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr., received his A.B. degree from
Roanoke College before coming to Washington and Lee to
take his M.A. He graduated from George Washington Uni-
versity in 1941 with the degree of J.D. Retired by the Navy
as Lieutenant, USNR, for disability incurred during enemy
action, he is now practicing law in Washington, D. C., with
offices in the Investment Building.

1937

J. Dexter Hobbie, III, is still with the family music store
ir Roanoke, Virginia. In 1944 he married Elizabeth Ann
Burnett and they have a young son Jason Dexter, IV. Ad-
dress: Hobbie Brothers Company, 9 West Church Street,
Roanoke, Virginia.

Victor R. LaVolpe is managing editor of The Herald,
Mount Holly, New Jersey.

Horace L. Bachelder, after graduation here with the A.B.
degree, received his M.A. from Duke and B.D. from Yale
University. He is Minister of Atkinson Memorial Congre-
gational Church, Oregon City, Oregon. In January he was
selected Junior First Citizen of Oregon City and Clackamas
County and presented with the national award of the U. S.
Junior Chamber of Commerce at a banquet attended by the
governor of Oregon and the mayors of Portland, Salem and
Oregon City. Address: 517 Jefferson Street, Oregon City,
Oregon.

W. A. (Pug) Cliburn has recently moved to 1035 Orchard
Lane, Ontario, California, where he is manager of a photo-
graphic department.

Benjamin L. Olds is Associate Editor of Family Circle
Magazine, 290 Avenue of Americas, New York 14, New York.

Souther F. Thompkins received his M.D. from Wash-
ington University, St. Louis, Missouri, in 1942, and is now con-
tinuing work on a Fellowship in Orthopedic Surgery in the
Mayo Foundation. As part of this work he is spending a six
months period at the Shriners Hospital for Crippled Chil-

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

dren in St. Louis, Missouri. His permanent address is Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

Horace Stewart Richardson is Executive Director of the
Boy’s Club, Bethelehem, Pennsylvania. He married Mary
Black in 1937 and they have three children, janet, born De-
cember 31, 1937; Jean, born January 11, 1943, and Horace
Stewart, Jr., born June 4, 1946. Address: Boy’s Club of
Bethlehem, 115 East Fourth Street, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

1938

Charles William (Bill) Karraker, still flying for Pan-
American Airways, has been on the New York-Puerto Rico
run since last July, but has been loaned to the Atlantic Di-
vision for this summer. He married Celine Earle in 1946 and
they are now the parents of a son. Address: P. O. Box 5,
Redding Ridge, Connecticut.

Waldo G. Miles practiced law in Danville, Virginia, after
graduation, but has now returned to his home town, Bristol,
Virginia, where he is a member of the law firm of Jones,
Woodward and Miles. Address: 725 Arlington Avenue, Bris-
tol, Virginia.

Frank L. Price, class agent for ’38-L, is a Special Agent,
Federal Bureau of Investigation, U. S. Department of Jus-
tice. He has recently changed his home address to 410 Lincoln
Avenue, Takoma Park, Maryland.

J. Oliver Gluyas is an employment manager, assistant to
director of industrial relations, American Pulley Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Residence address: Berlin Road,
Lindenwold, New Jersey.

Sam P. McChesney, class agent for ’38-A, is Advertising
Salesman for the American Weekly, 1556 Hanna Building,
Cleveland 15, Ohio. He was married to Edna McCorkle in
1943 and they have a young son, Samuel Parker McChesney,
Jr. They have a new residence address at 1835 Green Road,
Cleveland 21, Ohio.

T. H. Riggs, formerly associated with the firm of Morris,
McGregor and Sewell, has announced the opening of law
offices at 1203 City National Bank Building, Houston, Texas.

Harry A. Miller has recently moved from Cleveland, Ohio,
to the Chicago office of the Fire Association of Philadelphia,
where he is assistant to their Western manager in charge
of marine insurance. Address: 504 South Clifton, Park Ridge,
Illinois.

Robert W. Sampson is Advertising Manager, The Mutual
Benefit Life Insurance Company, P. O. Box 359, Newark 1,
New Jersey. Home address: 55 Walnut Place, Metuchen,
New Jersey.

A. Compton Broders is still in process of completing
his formal training at The Mayo Foundation, Rochester,
Minnesota. He was married to Margaret Cornelia Truslor in
1945, and they now have a son, A. C. Broders, III, born
May 2, 1948.

George F. Bauer is an engineer with the American Roll-
ing Mill Company, Middletown, Ohio.

Robert M. White, II, is Associate Editor and Publisher,
The Mexico Ledger, Mexico, Missouri.

Fred E. Waters, Jr., is resident Sales Manager for the
Southwestern Fuel Company, located in the 22 Marietta Street
Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He married Mary Flemister in

1941 and they have a daughter, Gayle Waters, now nearly
three years old. Address: 1209 West Rugby Avenue, College
Park, Georgia.

Oliver King Jones, Jr., is Secretary-Treasurer of Sweet-
water Hosiery Mills, Sweetwater, Tennessee.

William B. Bagbey is with the Roanoke World News,
Roanoke, Virginia. Recently he has been in charge of orga-
nizing the news department of a radio station, but has now
returned to the newspaper work. Address: 324 Washington
Avenue, S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

William H. Daniel is in the hotel and real estate business
in Tulsa, and is Vice-President of Daniel Addition Company.
Address: 708 Daniel Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1939

Joseph B. Edwards, was a visitor to the campus in March.
He is now Manager of Chickasha Coca-Cola Bottling Com-
pany, 428 Choctaw Avenue, Chickasha, Oklahoma. He mar-
ried Dorothy F. Gray in 1943 and they have two sons, Joseph
B., Jr., and Thomas G.

John A. MacKenzie practiced law with his brother H. W.
MacKenzie, Jr., LL.B., ’32, from 1939-1941; entered the ser-
vice and was released to inactive duty in March, 1946. He 1s
now a member of the firm of MacKenzie, Carr and Mac-
Kenzie, New Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia.

Edgar L. Smith returned from the service in 1945, after 3
years and 2 months overseas, and has been practicing law in
Lewisburg, West Virginia, since that time. He married Na-
dine Mural Livesay in 1946 and they have a daughter, Louise
Ann, born March 5, 1948.

Thomas A. Williams, Jr., has practiced law in Richmond,
Virginia, since graduation. He married Dorothy Sampson in
1941 and they have two daughters, Sandy, 5 years old, and
Susan, 20 months old. Address: Suite 15-16-17 Mutual Build-
ing, Richmond, Virginia.

Richard L. (Dick) Howell is in the insurance business in
Lynchburg, Virginia—W. D. Campbell and Son, Peoples
National Bank. He has a wife and one little girl now three
years old.

Albert Foster received the A.B. degree from Pennsylvania
State College before entering Washington and Lee where he
graduated in Law with the LL.B. degree. Returning from the
Army in 1946, he opened law offices in McConnellsburg, Penn-
sylvania. He married Rebecca Crabtree in 1942 and they are
the parents of two children.

G. William (Bill) Swift is a member of the law firm of
McCoy, King, Anderson, Hall and Swift, Lake Charles,
Louisiana, 515 Weber Building, Lake Charles, Louisiana.

Martin Partenope after being with Douglas Aircraft staff
for three years, now has his own contracting business in Reno,
Nevada. Address: 1156 West First Street, Reno, Nevada.

Joseph Charles Murphy received the B.A. degree from
New York University before entering the Washington and
Lee Law School, where he received the LL.B. degree. He is
practicing law with the firm of Bowers and Rinehart, Second
National Bank Building, Somerville, New Jersey.

J. Vaughan Beale began the practice of law with his father
in Franklin, Virginia, immediately upon graduation. He be-
came a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in 1940, but is again back in the practice in his home town.
Address: Box 307, Franklin, Virginia.

Donald Bruce Houghton after graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee, received the A.M. degree in Mathematics from
the University of Michigan in 1943. He is now a Mathemati-
cal Research Engineer, Franklin Institute, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

1940

Robert L. Gayle is managing the family farm, Berthaville
Star Route, Fredericksburg, Virginia.

James W. Hammett is practicing law under firm name of
Roberts and Hammett. His home address is 1104 St. Vin-
cent Avenue, Shreveport, Louisiana.

1941

Ralph E. Keehn has been employed as an attorney in the
tax, insurance and claims department of Phillips Petroleum
Company, since May, 1946. Home address: 1406 West Ten-
nessee Street, Midland, Texas.

1942

D. S. Carnahan, Jr., has been practicing medicine in
Petrolia, Pennsylvania, but began a three year fellowship in
radiology at New York University, College of Medicine and
St. Vincent’s Hospital on May 15, 1948. Address: 81 Argyle
Road, Albertson, Long Island, New York.

Raymond B. Whitaker received the LL.B. degree from the
University of Denver on June 12, 1948.

1943

Richard Chadwick Johnson received his M.D. from Yale
University School of Medicine in 1945. He was discharged
from the Navy last December and is now practicing his pro-
fession at 608 McKinley Street, Sand Springs, Oklahoma.

Morrison Ray (Jug) Nelson went directly into the Marine
Corps upon graduation. He is now with the Neel Tobacco
Company, spending about half his time in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, and the other half in North Carolina. Address: 1405
Goddard Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky.

A. B. Conley, Jr., is Assistant Sales Manager, distributors
of automotive equipment, 625 Hogan Street, Jacksonville,
Florida.

Albert D. Darby, Jr., class agent for 1943, recently with
the News-Leader in Richmond, Virginia, is now with the Wolf
Publishing Company, Norwood, Ohio.

Paul Shuford is practicing law with John J. Wicker,
Jr., with offices in the Mutual Building, Richmond, Virginia.
He has been teaching one of the late Dr. Raymon Johnson’s
courses in the Law School. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa
last February.

Frank N. Jarvis, after receiving his B.S. from Washington
and Lee, picked up an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
He is now assistant to the general merchandising manager,
The Halle Brothers Company, 1228 Euclid Avenue, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

Stanley R. Goldstein was married to Judy Kamer on
April 4, 1948. He is with American-Mitchell, fashion pub-
lishers, 255 Seventh Avenue, New York 1, New York.

1944

John R. Forgy is a student in the Architectural Depart-
ment, Washington University, St. Louis. He expected to get
his degree in Architectural Engineering this spring and in
Architect in the spring of 1949. Address: 1015 North Beech
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

 

Marriages

1921

John Bell was married to Mrs. Nylah West on June 25,
1948, in Tampa, Florida.

1931

Elijah William Hale, Jr., was married to Era May Causie
on May 22, 1948, in the R. E. Lee Chapel, Lexington, Virginia.

1938

George Francis Bauer was married to Chloe Higginbotham
on May 22, 1948, in Old St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Norfolk,
Virginia.

1941

Richard Worthington Smith was married to Katherine
Hoge Ronemus on July 3, 1948, in Staunton, Virginia.

Allen T. Snyder was married to Gertrude Wright Wells,
July 6, 1948.
1943

Philip Allen Sellers was married to Caroline Rudulph on
July 7, 1948, in Montgomery, Alabama.

1944

Marshall Terrell Steves was married to Patricia Galt on
Tuesday, May 25, in San Antonio, Texas.

1946

Dr. Harold Turner Mankin was married to Patricia Reed
Dawson on June 5, 1948, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

1948

Nate Lavinder Adams, II, of Lynchburg, Virginia, was
married to Eloise Bennett Knox in the R. E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church in Lexington, on Friday, June 18, 1948.

Edwin Graham Adair, Jr., and Miss Marion Elizabeth
Clement were married in Culpeper, Virginia, June 12, 1948.

Births
1938
Dr. and Mrs. Albert Compton Broders are the parents of
a son, Albert Compton, III, born May 2, 1948.
1940
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Macfarlane are the parents of a daugh-
ter, Sarah Forsythe, born June 19, 1948.
1941

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen E. Campbell, Jr., are the parents of
a son, Stephen Edward, III, born April 24, 1948.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1942

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Bourcy Whitaker are the parents
of a son, Raymond B., Jr., born April 28, 1948.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. William Kinnaird Privett are the parents of
a daughter, Caryl Penney Privett, born January 7, 1948.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. Garland S. Daniel, Jr., are the parents of a
daughter, Ida Ruth, born June 20, 1948.

In Memoriam

1876

Robert Henry Sellers died May 20, 1948, in Greensboro,
North Carolina. He was buried in the Lexington cemetery,
his family having lived here many years ago.

1889

Wade H. Ellis died at his home in Washington, D. C.,
July 5, 1948.
1892
Malcolm Graeme Bruce, LL.B., '92, died March 31, 1948,
at his Berry Hill Plantation, South Boston, Virginia.

1894

Marshall Funkhouser died Apri! 21, 1948, in Baltimore,

Maryland.
1897

George E. Jordan died May 5, 1948. His home was in Blue
Island, Illinois.

Rev. Charles F. Myers, D.D., retired minister of the Pres-
byterian Church, died July 19, 1948, in Charlotte, North

Carolina.
1900

Francis Dare Lakin died at his home in Marion, Ohio,
June 15, 1948.
1903

Ballard French Combs, Prestonsburg, Kentucky, died,
May, 1948.

1911

A. Dana Hodgdon, American Consul General in Stutt-
gart, Germany, died July 12, 1948, of a cerebral hemorrhage.
His home was in Baltimore, Maryland.

1914
Harry L. Miller died May 26, 1948, in Huntington, West
Virginia. His home was in Hinton, West Virginia.
1929

John William Malone died July 28, 1947. His home was
in Pensacola, Florida.

1931

William Cooper Clark died April 15, 1948. His home was

in Clarksburg, West Virginia. .
1939

Asa R. Larrick, Jr., died May 22, 1948, at The Miners
Home, Crosby, Minnesota. His home was in St. Paul, Min-
nesota. :

John Fletcher Coffman died May 29, 1948, in Cumberland
Maryland.

 

Dr. George Bolling Lee, grandson of General Robert E.
Lee, member of the University Board of Trustees, and promi-
nent gynecologist, died in New York City, July 13, 1948.

Dr. Lee, who was 76, fell at his home and broke his hip.
His death came unexpectedly in a New York Hospital.

Dr. Lee was born in Lexington, Virginia, August 31, 1872,
a son of General W. H. F. (Rooney) Lee and Mrs. Mary
Tabb Lee. The family often visited Mrs. Robert E. Lee and
General Custis Lee, who had succeeded his father as presi-
dent of the University.

He was graduated from Washington and Lee in 1893
and from the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia,
in 1896. Since that time he has practiced medicine in New
York City. From 1900 to 1914 he was surgeon at the Women’s
hospital and consultant at Bellevue. He also taught gyne-
cology at Polytechnic Medical School.

Dr. Lee had served on the University Board of Trustees
since 1924. He was a captain in the medical corps in the Span-
ish-American War and medical corps reserve in World War I.

On April 21, 1920 he was married to Miss Helen Keeney
of San Francisco, who survives him with two children, Miss
Mary Walker Lee and Robert E. Lee, IV, the latter a student
at Washineton and Lee.

Funeral services were held in the Robert E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church, Lexington, Virginia, at 11 a.m. on July
16. Members of the student body served as active pallbearers
with faculty and board members as honorary pallbearers.
Interment followed in the family crypt in Lee Chapel on the
Washington and Lee campus where rest the remains of Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee and other members of the family.

[ 23 ]

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bicentennial
Alumni Reunion

June 16-18 1949
oP

Make your plans now
_ to be present. This will
~ bethe largest gathering
of alumni in Washing- .
ton and Lee's history.

All classes will hold re-

unions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

