 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Homecoming

NOVEMBER 15

 

Davidson College

VS.

Washington and Lee

 

Your Friends Will Be Here—Will You?

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Outlook, 1941-1942

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

HE number of new students entering this fall was
oF cctly the same as last year’s number, but there was
4 decline in the group of old students and law students.
The total decrease in student attendance,
as compared with last year, is about 5%.

< e

This situation means, of course, that
our older boys are being drawn in by the
draft or are electing some form of military
service in which they feel they can serve

meee applly.)

It is a condition that exists in most
of the colleges that may be compared with
Washington and Lee, men’s colleges that
are not military and not specialized in
scientific instruction.

ee ae

The actual loss of enrollment for the
present semester 1s not a matter of great seriousness but
the uncertainty as to the future—indeed, some implica-
tions as to the future—are giving us concern. We have
actually in attendance possibly forty boys who are sub-
ject to the action of a draft board during the present ses-
sion. Undoubtedly if the national emergency continues,
and the indications are that it will continue, we shall have
increasing numbers of students and prospective students

affected. es

At such a juncture in the University’s history—it may
be a crisis in the history—we need the thoughtful and
generous help of our alumni.

ee

They can help us first of all by supplying to us the
Names of those boys in the local community who are
worthy of coming to this institution, boys who might be
interested in coming to this institution. To such boys we
Shall send all the material we have which interprets the

Unive
4
sity. pak ty

The alumni can help also by making contact with
Certain boys and counseling with them as to the distinc-
tive character and the peculiar opportunities presented
on this campus. It is our earnest hope in this connection
that those alumni who do not know fully our program
will accept for themselves the helpful burden of under-
Standing our present policy.

 

The alumni can learn, for example, of the dozen or
more special defense courses, established on a collegiate
basis and carrying college credit, by which our students
can better prepare themselves for effec-
tive contribution if they should be called
into service or should enter voluntarily.
These courses cover a fairly wide range
and are being attested by the boys now

enrolled. ae

The alumni can also interpret for us
the variety of interests that are served by
the regular curriculum. If a boy is inter-
ested in general liberal arts, or in general
science, or in pre-medical work, or in
commerce, or in journalism, or in foreign
service, or in industrial management, or
in law, or in one of various other major
endeavors, he can find in our curriculum
excellent preparation. The quality of these various under-
takings has been validated by the success of our students
who have gone each of these pathways to life’s achieve-

ment. Paes

We are resolved now as always to sustain the tradi-
tions of Washington and Lee, traditions of student honor
and friendliness and traditions of honest scholarship ; we
are resolved to provide such general instruction and such
directional emphasis as our resources will permit, and no
more; we are resolved to provide the best guidance and
personal inspiration we can make available: we are re-
solved to offer, through wisely chosen sports and varied
extra-curricular activities and spiritual influences, the
resources for development of the greatness that inheres
in youthful personality.

kee

To find the boy who will enter worthily into such an
educational aspiration and to interpret to him the op-
portunity at Washington and Lee is our immediate prob-
lem. In the solution of this problem our alumni can be of
immense help.

i aoe oe

President

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Eighty-one sons of Washington and Lee alumni enrolled this year at their fathers’ alma mater

A New School Year Begins

Le draft has affected the enrollment in educational
institutions throughout the country this year, and
Washington and Lee is no exception, with 880 men en-
rolled for the 1941-1942 term as compared with the en-
rollment of 930 last year. This shows a decrease of ex-
actly 50 students, which is not proportionally higher than
that of other institutions.

The freshman class this year shows a decrease of one
man in relation to the 1940 enrollment—286 students for
1941. However, this year’s freshman class has already
set a record—one might even say that it has “made his-
tory’—for.the largest number of alumni sons to enter in
one class are in this body—exactly 29 students whose
fathers formerly attended Washington and Lee. Two
members of the University Board of Trustees, Walter
Lapsley Carson of Richmond, Virginia, and Harry St.
George Tucker Carmichael of Kyrock, Kentucky., have
sons entering in this class—Walter Lapsley Carson, Jr.,
and Standrod Tucker Carmichael. Robert Fishburne
Campbell, Jr., a senior, is the son of the oldest alumnus
having a boy in school. Mr. Campbell, Sr., graduated in
the class of 1875. John Wilson Cook, is the son of the

youngest alumnus having a boy in school. His fatl
graduated in the class of 1920.

There are 81 sons of alumni in all attending here thi
year. The grand total is pretty close to the all-time reco (
which was set last year. In 1940, there were 85 studen
registered at the University whose fathers also were
Washington and Lee men. Many of the fathers m de
enviable records while here in academic work and
extra-curricular activities. |

John Baxter Atkins, Jr., for example, whose fathé
was a stellar tackle on the great football team in 1916
following his father’s footsteps. Although light for vat
sity football, Atkins has the spirit and is working ou
daily for a position on the newly organized 150- “pout
football squad. 3

Roger Jones Bear, Jr., has something to be proud ®
in his father’s basketball career. His dad captained
1914 basketball team.

John Harvey Sorrels, Jr., entered with this yeat
freshman class. His father played varsity fullback on @
football teams of 1915 and 1916. ‘

The student coLOM HEN, according to the classifie

ca

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

tion by residence, places Virginia first this year with 183
students, followed by New York with 70 and New Jersey
with 64. In all, students from 41 states are registered. Of
the seven students registered from outside the United
States there is one from Canada, one from the Dominican
Republic, one from Hawaii, three from Puerto Rico, and
e from Venezuela.

Following 1s the list of the sons of alumni now in

on

college :

Son Father
fee Alexander Jit ie J. R. H. Alexander, ’07
Mean. ALOR oe a EL. Alvord, 85
Meiiiam Franklin Allison... i... *George W. Allison, 710
MA Chit, | Payee eee ei cee see nd ety ec yee te J.-B Atkins, “20
Mee tliggins Bagley, ex Goes, Charles F. Bagley, ’07
Meenas Byron’ Batlard’.) eo. Bryon LL, Ballard, 712
Emmett Warren Barger, Jr........... Emmett Warren Barger, ’11
Meee). Barts: ii ee Paul). Barus, 17
emer). Bear, Itai etek ees Roger J. Bear, ’14
Meee. Wilson: Benton (iia airs seccieteoiits Jesse Benton, ’19
Meme |. BiatkiOrd, ) ei ate Fienry & Blacktord, 17
menert Mac- Boatwrieht....3 ais John G. Boatwright, 715
meotce Henry: Bowers, Jr....2.......:. George Henry Bowers, ’23
Meese Brooke, (ae ae ee George M. Brooke, ’00
Memeard Brooke ins ee ee George M. Brooke, ’00
mueer Browder, Jiu ont *Walter Browder, ’14
Mee urks.. a ee eee Ph. ee puarks, 05

 

Son Father
FORM i Oe ee john Campbell,
Robert: ts © aapper iro ee R. F. Campbell,
Standrod Fucker. Carmichaet.a:c... H. St:-G.-T.. Carmichael.
Watter Hapsiey CarsGn, If. :....0.42 Walter Lapsley Carson,
CC eye (are is ee C. Lynch Christian,
TOR AV 4 eo ee eae john W.Cook,
Rrederick Richoiond. Cottrell ek: Joe Hobson,
FOR fF Ove ney. et, IP ee ee Pon ria
Bioiert scars rocen, J bo a R..O). Crockett;
Fon Daniels oe a W. Po Daniel,
Witham Alexander: Davidson....3.2 Dr. BP. Davidson,
Woe Jey ane ihe ee ee B.C. DeVane,
Charles Devine. [rao Dr Chas. | Devine,
LUAEL MOISOl. ai eth a ee George Faison,
Prank H. Flanagan, Jt. a, Frank H. Flanagan,
Francis. Wills Flannagan) 2cc....4). John W. Flannagan, Jr.,
OTACY Poreyicdl so is eee Grady H. Forgy,
Tino. Pele a ee Grady H. Forgy,
FONG (Arrow, I ee a J. W: Garrow,
Charlies Niles Grosvenor, ir es C. N. Grosvenor,
Robert omeids Guerrant. oa *S. S. Guerrant,
fPorenza 1 Onn, Plamineek,” fr. occas cu Ey. Hammack,
PCS el EA Erp nee cse hs ensecauasnes csc 1, OV. Pfarman,
Py Pe Pe) ek cs ee eee Leon Harris,
Ds Gd ORG By en oak: gest OCR Ra oH a SCE 9 George E. Haw,
Bek Pigs. Fie ee Alex . Hitz,
et ee ops ThA oe *C2 NM. obson,;
TRODET. Tt OGUt fc ee ee Re probsott:
Walia eps ee a A. Hie Hopkins,

"09
ae
"99
15
PO
vo
20
oe
02
"18
As
14
16
ad
"18
07
"16
16
"99
4
86
17
04
a
04
14
06
14
"12

Sons of Alumni entering this year—Front row, left to right: Richard Irby, Jr., Jesse Wilson Benton, Jr., Robert Shields Guer-
rant, James Harman, Jr., Francis Wills Flannagan. Second Row: Charles Niles Grosvenor, Jr.. Emmett Warren Barger, Jr.,
Roger J. Bear, Jr., William Alexander Davidson, Henry J. Blackford, Jr., Henry Wise Kelly, Jr. Third row: Sam Silverstein,
Jr., Walter Lapsley Carson, Jr., W. Courtney King, Jr., John Atkins, Jr.,. Thomas Byron Ballard, John Letcher Crist, Jr.
Fourth row: Frederick Richmond Cottrell, Robert Oscar Crockett, Jr., John H. Sorrells, Jr., Joe Higgins Bagley, John
Maurice Miller, Jr. Back row: Standrod Tucker Carmichael, Omer T. Kaylor, Jr., John Marshall McMurran, Dean Bradley

Stewart, Jr., Philip Powers Page, Jr., Lorenza John Hammack, Jr.

Not in picture, George Henry Bowers, Jr.

[5 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Son Father
Pavane S. Pwphreys, Pe... Ewing S. Humphreys, ’10
J. Morrison Hutcheson, Jr..:.... Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02
Weicent Tenico. Becta a: Col. Robert Ignico, 718
IS TC VINE cn BE AP 8 or a ag Richara> Irby, 729
Mbats ae FOMUB ON... cca cn William M. Johnson, ’08
PLOMIE (ONES CTE ha cake cee Homer Jones, ’17
Cee Oo at, 8 ote aia adc eee Omer ‘Ii: Kaylor, 11
Georce: Keller 38 es eh George W. Keller, ’07
Peenry VV ise Wey hi in einen HOW... Wetly, 713
My SR ourtiey: Fine. ie. usa. cues W. Courtney King, ’21
Peeee) i teee oe 5., 1 es oe He J, Wrser, 16
WY iad WP ORLOG icici ne William McCoy, ’02
Tee Pa ee a as ee aC) 1) Me Denald, 412
Joon: Marshall MecMurran...3.-3....... *Lewis A. McMurran, ’07
yon Beaute inter, [ri caine ies 41. Mo Miller 15
Barton <NhOrrig 98 a iid Barton W. Morris, 719
Mi itiaine Prenry  Oest: Fri Hieakuencnnn William Oast, 715
Praip Powers Pade. Jtis6s sive sa con P..P.Page '08
ONY 18 Git OR LT: ani ko a ee John M. Raines, ’16
ey Me AC ee Herman A. Sacks, ’11
De. SIAL eset nes A. C. Sherrard, ’03
Sone Stk, ec Kenelm Shirk, ’15
Bans Gilversteie Ir k eee a Sam Silverstein, ’17
Peerbert Smith, ion ea uk Herbert Smith, ’17
Per. VV ee Eo ss ee ee ee RA, Smith; 15
de EE: Samretis. FP. ce icons sa John H. Sorrells, 718
8. Spine 2a R. B. Spindle, Jr., ’06
mosecoe SCMnensON, «JL. ce icccsss. ces Roscoe Stephenson, ’08
Biarenall 1s seeves es a as Albert Steves, Jr., 06
Deus Bradlow stowatt, Pin onc D. B. Stewart, 18
Pec We Te ee ae oe *FRred M.:.-Valz, 711
POX A AREY. cosh) coe csperbes neice aenwcveneens Alex M. Walker, ’20
Len ee NG i ee eae Wat boo Wiicoxn. 12
SAV IIEl © Vy AIS... Clayton EE. Wilhamis, “12
Pred, Meee Sh eee Alfred Wolfe, ’12
* Deceased

To replace the nine members of the faculty who are
absent this year on leaves or for other reasons, there has
been an addition of six new men to the university staff.
A number of the old members have withdrawn from the
faculty to devote their time and services to the country in
the national emergency.

John Higgins Williams, A.M., assistant professor of
political science, has been granted a leave of absence for
eraduate study at the University of North Carolina.

Charles Porterfield Light, Jr., A.M., LL.B., -protes-
sor of law, and Herbert Trotter, Jr., Ph.D., associate pro-
fessor of physics, have been called by the United States
government for defense work.

Members of last year’s faculty, George Francis
Drake, A.B., instructor in French, George Harding Fost-
er A.M., instructor in English, Robert Taylor Parrish,
Ph. Dy instructor in. Spanish, Atbert Gilbert Steer, Jr-;
instructor in languages, and Latham Burrows Weber,
A. M., instructor in journalism, have been called away
for various reasons.

George Junkin Irwin, A.M., assistant professor of

romance languages, and George Stuyvesant Jackson,

[ 6 |

 
 
  
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
    
  

A.M., assistant professor of English, have returned ¢ ,
the ee after an absence of one year. They had bee
doing graduate work at Columbia university.

Col. T. A. E. Moseley, Ph.D., visiting professor fror
the Virginia Military Institute’s faculty, is lecturing 6
art and appreciation—a newly organized course. Lieutey
ant George Mercer Brooke, Jr., A.B., a graduate of Vir
ginia Military Institute, will act as an instructor in mif
tary fundamentals. j

Other additions to the faculty include: Robert
Hodges, A.B.; Branson Beeson Holder, Ph.D. ; : Robe .
C. Goodell, A. M.: ‘and Seymour A..smith; A-B., Bi D

Mr. Hodges, a eraduate of the University of Nort :
Carolina, replaces Latham Weber as director of the un ii
versity news bureau and instructor in journalism. ’

Dr. Holder, coming from Westminster College i
Pennsylvania, will act as assistant professor of com
merce and economics. 4

Mr. Goodell will be an instructor in German. He ha
done graduate work at Princeton, the University 0
Munich, and at Columbia University, since his gradua
tion from Dartmouth. Goodell comes here from Bowdoi
College.

Mr. Smith, Alleghany college graduate, received h
B.D. degree from Yale. He follows Denny Welcher § !
the director of campus religious activities. 3

Larkin H. Farinholt, associate professor of chen
istry, will leave this semester to do research chenustry fc
the government in Pittsburgh. 3

 

Tue Autumn issue of The Key Reporter, natio 1
magazine of Phi Beta Kappa notes the placing of a broni
tablet in ‘Liberty Hall,” original home of John Brow
in Frankfort, Kentucky. q

Phi Beta Kappa’s interest in Brown, Kentucky's ir
senator, arises from the fact that he was initiated im
the William and Mary Chapter in 1778, but to Washin
ton and Lee men it is more important to note that th
native of August County, Virginia, was a eraduate | (
Liberty Hall Academy as well as of Princeton and Wi
liam and Mary; and that his father, the Reverend I
John Brown, was an early principal of Augusta Academ 1

 

STANFORD SCHEWEL, 1940, after a year’s work
the law offices of John W. Davis, 1892, in New Yorl
volunteered for the army. Rejected for physical reason
he again volunteered, this time for work in the Treast
Department as a public speaker. He is now with oP)

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee

University

 

 

The site of Alumni Field before grading began

Alumni Field Nearly Completed

President Francis P. Gaines has this to say about the
new Intramural field, which should be finished soon:

“Generosity of the alumni, acting through the 1941
Alumni Fund, encouraged the trustees to start immediate
work upon the new intra-mural field. Long recognized
as one of the greatest needs for the physical happiness
and development of our boys, this field will serve a num-
ber of needs and will enrich the spirit as well as the
recreational hours of student life.

“In the first year of the appeal, the alumni contributed
approximately one third of the total cost. The local
authorities felt sure that the alumni would make possible
through the Alumni Fund payment of the entire cost, and
would be glad that immediate action was taken so that
students may begin at once to enjoy those fine resources.
It 1s proposed to call it Alumni Feld, as a monument to
the interest which former students unselfishly take in
the welfare of present students and students yet to come.”

 

Digging operations half finished—the same view in October

/

Students Win National Contest

Le essential idealism of our policy is tempered by the
realization of our traditions. The policy is buttressed
by practical devices to effect it. To drift will be fatal; to
win victory and fail to consolidate it is not only stupid
but will destroy what may well be our last chance to live
in an ordered world. We ask America to act boldly.
Victory, order, and Justice: these are the measure of her
responsibility to the civilization of which she is heir.”

With the foregoing paragraph three members of the
class of 1941 closed an essay entitled “The Next Decade
of American Foreign Policy,’ an essay which brought
about one of Washington and Lee’s most significant and
brilliant triumphs for 1941; for this piece of work won
first prize in a national intercollegiate contest in which
144 of the leading colleges in America competed: Wash-
ington and Lee first, Dartmouth second, Ursinus third.

Proud as college graduates are of their football and
other athletic triumphs, they are, or should be, prouder
of outstanding success in intellectual fields, for a college
is an institution of learning whose greatness can only
be measured in terms of progress in learning. When a
college scientist makes an important scientific discovery
or a notable contribution to scholarship; when an under-
graduate shows, in some way, his superiority in intel-
ligence and learning over the undergraduates of other
schools, then is the appropriate moment for an alumnus
to lift his head high and proclaim, “It is of this school
that I am a graduate.”

The contest under discussion was sponsored by the
Institute for National Policy of the College of William
and Mary. It called for an essay on the subject, ‘The
Next Decade of American Foreign Policy” to be first
submitted to a regional committee (of which there were
nine) and then, for the regional winners to go to a na-
tional committee which would pick the best three essays.
The regional prize was $300—the national, $450.

Washington and Lee men went to work at once when
they were invited to enter the contest, and kept at it
tooth and nail during the whole year. Three students on
our ‘committee’ (for these essays were prepared by
groups of three rather than by individuals) were Ed-
ward Eugene Hunter, Jr., of Wilmington, North Caro-
lina; Richard Middleton Herndon of Haverford, Penn-
sylvania; and Samuel O. Pruitt, Jr., of Shelby, North
Carolina. All are members of the class of 1941.

Pruitt’s father is a member of the class of 1911 as is
also John G. Herndon, the father of Richard.

[8 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

‘ton O. Phillips from the School of Commerce; Ruper

   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  

Helping the three young men over the rough spot
by advice, and critical reading of what they produced, wa
a faculty committee consisting of John Higgins Williams
of the Department of Political Science, chairman; Leon
ard C. Helderman of the Department of History; Mer

N. Latture from Political Science; Ollinger Crenshaw
from the Department of History; Mervyn Crobaugh
Economics; Dean Glover D. Hancock of the School 6
Commerce; William Gleason Bean, Chairman of a
Department of History; and Allen W. Moger of th
same department. To Professor Williams should go mos
of the credit for such help as faculty members gave ¢
our student committee, but to summarize his own state
ments, this essay was genuinely the individual work 7
the students and theirs alone. At any rate, it was a Wash
ington and Lee production, and Washington and Le
won the contest. 4

As has been indicated above, the three students wh
submitted these recommendations divided the consider
able sum of $750, and we were interested to discover i
what form of riotous living the money would be in
vested. What we found out was this: Dick Herndon wil
continue his studies at Haverford where his father is
professor, and will specialize in Foreign Service. He ha
already taken his examination in this subject with”
view to becoming a diplomat in the future. Sam Pri i
is at Northwestern as a future officer in the Naval Re
serve. kd Hunter, who put the essay into its final form
is investing his prize money in further studies at Wash
ington and Lee.

We venture to suggest that this triumph, small thougl
some may believe it to be in itself, is a significant index t c
the Washington and Lee of today. Outsiders may supet r
fically view our campus, see our magnificent fratermit
houses, observe the glittering brilliance of our dance- set
listen to some students to whom the academic side of col
lege life is a vague annoyance—and such observers al
be unaware that this is but the surface—that underneatl
it is serious thought and the training of educated men.

All alumni, we are sure, will join in congratulatio i
first to the College of William and Mary for promulgat i
ing this method of arousing serious thought among
American undergraduates upon the terrible problems © 0
the moment; and then especially to Hig Williams, 192 4
and his three young political scientists for the honor the
have brought to Washington and Lee. 3

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ASHINGTON and Lee got off to another flying start
W.. September 15, with the opening of rush week.
The eighteen fraternities on the campus pledged a total
of 204 men, Phi Delta Theta setting an all-time record

with a unit of 26.

Registration on the Wednesday and Thursday of rush

week showed that the stu-
dent body is smaller by
about 50 boys this year.
Selective service and en-
listment in the air corps
have caused the decline in
numbers. Many stu-
dents are now wearing the
uniform of their country ;
Truman Donoho, 1932, for
example, is a cook in the
quartermaster corps at
Camp Lee, Virginia.

He was to complete his
commerce major this
spring.

ini. spite of “the .de-
creased enrollment, the
Student Body Executive
Momimittee, under the
leadership of President
Howard Dobbins, has sold
a total of 750 campus
Mees, an increas-.of SV
over last year... . Dobbins
has set 800 as his goal in
an attempt to establish a
new record.

Noticeable by his ab-
sence this year is Profes-
sor J. H. (Hig) Williams,
Political Science teacher,
who is on leave of absence

for a year of study at the University of North Carolina.
-.. Students really miss their beloved ‘Hig,’
looking forward eagerly to his return.

The fall sports program is well under way, with
‘round 100 Washington and Lee men playing football
tor the Blue and White. ... The varsity, under new Head

Campus,Comment

By Watt Downie, 1941

Coach Riley Smith, lost a heartbreaking opener to Se-
wanee on September 26 by a score of 20-19... . They
held Kentucky in check on October 4, better than had
been expected, losing finally 7-O in above 90 degree

weather. The following week George Washington was

 

Students in the arch under the new wing of the dormitory—
the libray in the background

’

and are

|

held to a scoreless tie. Then followed a convincing victory

over Richmond, 21-0.

The freshman team,
sparked by Tody Coleman,
a Connecticut boy who
runs like Tom Harmon,
won its first contest of the
season here when _ they
swamped Staunton Muili-
tary Academy by a score
of 26-6. .”...- Tey: beat te
Richmond frosh 10-0 in
the second game and tied
Virginia Tech, 6-6 in the
third.

Forty lightweights re-
ported to Coach Cy Young
for the initial practice of
the Washington and Lee
150-pound team, and pros-
pects look good for a suc-
cessful first year of light-
weight football in  Vir-
ginia. 203 Ae Seven yea
league was formed in the
state last spring by two
Washington and Lee stu-
dents, and W&L, opened
against Hampden-Sydney
there on October 3, the
game ending in a scoreless
tie... . Two home games,
with Virginia and Roan-
oke College, and another

away game, with William and Mary, will make up the
1941 schedule for the 150 pounders.
Cross Country, under coach Forest Fletcher, has be-
gun, with several lettermen back.
A recent unprecedented move by the dance board has
(Continued on page 18)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Toward a Chemistry Lecture Room

NE University department of which all Washington
(> and Lee men should be proud right now is that of
Chemistry. Since 1924, when the present Chemistry
Building was constructed, Dr. Howe and his colleagues
have shown how well they merited the money that had
been spent on this structure by training hundreds of the
country’s leading chemists and in other ways compiling
a fine record for themselves.

This year, special recognition of their work has been
accorded our department by the nation’s leading organiza-
tion of Chemists, the American Chemical Society, which
gave us a Class A rating among American Universities.

In 1936, a committee was appointed by this society to
set up standards for colleges that train professional
chemists. The committee was to decide standards for
extent of the professors’ academic training, size of classes,
laboratory and library facilities, and content of courses
offered. According to their May report of this year, 102

institutions in the United States had been approved. In

the district south of the Potomac and Ohio rivers, and
East of the Mississippi, only nine were included. Wash-
ington and Lee was one of these. Far be it from us to
mention names, but as we commented in another article,
Washington and Lee is again proving itself a true uni-
versity whose greatest triumphs are in the field of learn-
ing where they always should be.

But the surprising thing about this exceptionally
high rating of our department of Chemistry is that it has
come about in spite of some serious handicaps. For ex-
ample, though we are ourself ignorant of chemical
science, we can see that a lecturer in this subject must
demonstrate the experiments that he is talking about.
Now, many alumni will remember that the present lecture
room where freshmen learn the fundamentals of the
science is so arranged that nobody past the first four or
five rows could easily see a demonstration even though it
were performed. The fact is that this room was designed,
not for a class room at all, but for two laboratories. Con-
sequently, it is long and narrow with no acoustical prop-
erties to speak of, is all on one level, and as a result not
only strains the lecturer’s voice but prevents vision of his
desk. At one time, Dr. Howe tested the results of this
maladjustment by comparing the grades of those in the
front three rows with those in the back three, only to
find out, as he had expected, that the back-row men were
getting lower grades—so much lower, in fact, that no one
in the: back rows: got over a: “C.” .He-did the ‘best: he

| 10 |

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

could to improve this situation by rotating his Seatin
arrangements.

As most alumni know, the original Chemistry Buik
ing was designed to contain a large lecture room whi
was to be on the northeast side and include laborator
space beneath. This part of the plan had to be abandong
in 1924 for the usual reason that the university could n i
muster a penny beyond the $200,000 that the presa
structure cost.

You will remember that our recent list of suggest
university needs to which alumni could contribute ;
cluded the building of this added room; and in runnit j
a series of articles explaining each item on that list,
are now getting to this one. 4

The new structure, to be called the Howe Memaorig
would cost about $15,000—probably more today, sin
those figures were obtained in 1937. Equipment for ¢ tl
lecture room and the new laboratories would bring ¢
cost slightly higher. The reason why the cost is as lo
it is lies in the fact that the foundations for the new
were built in 1924 and that the present wall is a me
“curtain” designed to be removed. 4

There are other reasons why the need of this add
is imperative. At present writing, the department
biology and geology are huddled in the basement of t
Chemistry Building without adequate space for the
work. The new wing would add about 1200 square fe
of space for their laboratories, would free another 18
feet now used by the chemistry department, and wou
make the lecture room. available for large freshm:
classes in the two other sciences. Naturally, our plan
eventually to have a special building for biology a
geology, but until it can be acquired, they could functi
much better with more room to do their work. 4

It seems, certainly, that this structure should be bu
and built without delay. Chemistry is a subject alwa
important—probably more important than ever wh
war stares us in the face. Teachers of chemistry she n
surely have every facility for the best performance
their task. With seats in tiers, with a room so shaped t tT
the maximum number of students could be near the pl
form, with a preparation room where experiments a
be got ready for demonstration, the chemists of Wa s
ington and Lee could do an even finer job than they ha
done in the past. We hope they will be given the supp! D¢
they need. 4

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Frank Hayne, 1915, Military Attaché

APTHEUL readers will recall several mentions in past
FF ccues of the turbulent career of Lieutenant-Colonel
Frank Hayne, 1915, who kept being assigned by the
gov ernment to the hottest spots in Europe during the
most critical year in that continent’s history.

Recently, in an attempt to acquire a unifed picture of
his experiences, the Alumni Secretary requested an ac-
count of what Hayne had done and
seen in Europe which the Colonel was
kind enough to furnish in the account
quoted below.

The letter that we here reproduce
was held up for a long time for various
reasons and is over a year old; but in
spite of the fact that the events of the
immediate past have upset the interela-
tions of most of the countries described
by Colonel Hayne, his account is still
fresh and interesting.

Opening with a humorous refer-
ence to the famous occasion on which
he was punched in the jaw by a Finn
because he spoke to him in Russian,
Colonel Hayne goes on to say:

“T sailed from New York on June
9, 1937, and was held over in France
and Belgium to assist in preparing for
the dedication of the American Battle Monuments in the
latter country. General Pershing was in charge of the
work, and I reported to him in Paris and got my orders as
to what I was to do in Belgium, where I had to arrange for
the dedication of the three monuments which we have
there. I was engaged in this work for a little over two
months, after which I took some leave and traveled
around France.

“T arrived in Moscow on October 3rd and took up
my duties as Assistant Military Attache to the USSR.
Life in Soviet Russia is so totally different from any-
thing we are accustomed to in this country that it would
he futile for me to even attempt to describe it. Lots of
good books and quite a few bad ones have been written
On the subject, but I honestly believe that if you were
to read them all without having actually been there, you
Would still have only a very hazy conception of the truth.
The Soviet border is practically airtight and even in such
Countries as Finland, Estonia and Latvia, all of which
had formerly been part of the Russian Empire, people

 

Colonel Frank Hayne

would frequently ask mé about conditions in Soviet Rus-
sia. While I was Assistant Attache I had an opportunity
to travel around Western Russia, and I can assure you
it was well worth the effort, especially in the Crimea and
the Caucasus. On February 9th, 1939, my chief sailed
for America, and I was left in charge of the office. My
successor was enroute to Moscow when the present war
started on September Ist, and the Am-
bassador requested that I be allowed to
remain over for a while, so when things
began to look ominous in Finland, I
was available to be sent there. I arrived
in Helsinki on the eighth of November,
and I was there to see the bombs com-
ing down on the thirtieth. It was not a
pleasant sight, and three and a half
months of it didn’t improve it much.
The drone of a plane overhead still
gives me a slight inclination to duck,
until I realize that it isn’t carrying a
potential earthquake.

“The Finns put up a magnificant
fight, and they are a grand race of
people. There is no other word that I
can think of to describe them—they
really are a grand race. If I had any
ability as an author, I would certainly

devote it to telling the world about the Finns, because

among their other fine qualities they are so completely

modest that they don’t think they are grand at all, and
certainly have never made any effort to tell the world

about themselves. They never got excited about the war.
They simply regarded the Russians as a Kansas farmer
regards a cyclone; everybody did whatever he or she was

best fitted to do to stave it off, and that was that. The

idea that there was anything heroic about it never seemed

to occur to anybody. For an honest, loyal, straightforward

(and straight-shooting) race of people, give me the Finns.
What the world needs is fifty million more of them!

“Captain Robert Losey joined me in Finland as As-
sistant Military Attache for Air about the first of Febru-
ary, and when things quieted down there and the Ger-
mans moved into Norway, he and I were ordered to re-
port to that country and to Sweden. On April 10th, we

both received orders to report to the American Minister

in Norway (Mrs. Harriman) in person, and to the
(Continued on page 16)

[11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

FRONT ROW, Left to Right: Head Coach Riley Smith, McKenna, Fitzpatrick, Wheater, Cavaliere, Ciesla, Captain
Pinck, Gray, J. Bauzher, Brown, Nelson, Fox, Assistant Coach Dan Justice. SECOND ROW: Assistant Coach (Tex)
Tilson, Waddington, Daves, Ailor, Fabian, Graff, Dunn, Lawrence, Marx, Roehl, H. Baugher, Steves, Assistant Coach—
Jack Hennemier. THIRD ROW: Trainer Frank Trent, Soth, Didier, Littlepage, Tyson, Furman, Socha, Rulevich, Di |
Loreto, Russell, Manager Allen Overton, Assistant Coach Harold Cunningham. |

Three Kinds of Football —1941

If you were to ask Riley
Smith about the possibili-
ties of Washington and
Lee’s varsity football team for the remainder of this year,
he would answer you with a pun-question mark. In prac-
tically anyone’s estimation of the team’s chances, the
potentialities of sophomore triple-threat Eddie Marx
certainly is the question.

That the Generals need an outstanding back to spark
the offense was definitely brought out in the Sewanee,
Kentucky and George Washington contests. Consistently
the blockers shook tailbacks loose around the ends, but
they lacked the stuff to keep going to pay-dirt. And that’s
where Eddie is supposed to fit in.

In early drills this fall he showed plenty of mercury
in his heels and looked like the answer to Riley Smith’s
prayer for a cliriax runner. But he hurt his leg before
the Sewanee g .me and has been handicapped by a lack of
speed so far. When and if he rounds into shape, and if
he’s as good as Riley hopes, Eddie may turn what looked
a dismal campaign into at least a fair-to-middling one.

An optimistic estimate of the rocky schedule which
the team faces is likely to include only four possible

Varsity

By Ray WuirTtake™r, 1941

victories. Richmond, Maryland, Davidson, and Virgin

Tech are bracketed in the ‘““may-be-beaten” class, but th
Riley Smiths are not likely to glow very brightly int |
presence of Virginia and West Virginia.

After losing to Sewanee in the opener, the Big Bh
came back strongly and almost dumped a strong Ke
tucky club before losing 7-0. Last week they rose to great
defensive heights and held a tough George Washing
outfit to a scoreless tie. :

From tackle to tackle, the Generals are big, tough, of
perienced and well fortified with reserves. Averaging
200 pounds, the Big Blue is nearly three-deep in these
positions. ;

John Rulevich and Frank Diloreto, backed up P
Lillard Ailor, Jimmy Graff and Ed Waddington, provi
ample protection at the tackles. Billy Gray and Bill Fu
man are a pair of standout guards, but they are bei
pushed by Roy Fabian, Marshal Steves, and Bev Fitz :
patrick. At center there is no problem with rangy Joe
Littlepage, big Paul Skillman, and sophomore Ned La
rence on hand.

When the season began, there appeared to be a pf
lem at end what with no experienced men on hand at é

[12 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—— ts

but Bert Nelson, and Pres Brown, supported by Jim
Wheater, Jim Daves and Roger Soth have given Coach
smith little to ask for at the flanks.

Captain Bob Pinck, a fine defensive man, blocker and
passer, heads a galaxy of backs. Ed Marx, Teddy Ciesla
and Dave Russell have all looked good in the tailback, but
injuries have slowed them down considerably.

Seniors Charley Didier and Joe Baugher have sparkled
‘n the two games to date, but Floyd McKenna, Jack
Roehl, and Harry Baugher will also be playing a lot of
ball. Frank Socha, a thundering fullback, and Paul
Cavaliere, who has played consistently better-than-aver-
age ball so far, round out the ball carriers.

All in all, the Generals will be facing no crips from
now on out, but if Mazx puts the necessary kick in th?
offense, the Generals will give more than a good account
of themselves.

With plenty of fight,
spirit and Jack Tucek
to” build” them team
around, the Washington and Lee freshman football team
seems headed for a successful season. Just for a starter,
they knocked over Staunton Military Academy by a 26-6
margin, followed up by flattening the University of Rich-
mond frosh 10-0; then played VPI to a 6-6 tie. They then
trounced Virginia 21-0 to remain, at this writing, un-
defeated.

Tucek, smart, powerful, and 185-pounds is quarter-
back of the team. With the brothers Norman—Dyke, who
turns in a top performance at center, and Pinky who does

Freshman
By KraMER THomas, Jr., 1941

ee

 

as well at end—and Frances Coleman, a light, fast back,
who combines skillful blocking with expert tackling and
running, there should be little trouble in finding men
for any job.

Remarkable among the frosh is a fighting spirit
which has enabled them to stand up well against the
varsity in scrimmages, and an unselfish team conscious-
ness particularly noticeable in the blocking after a kick-off.

Although the team boasts no men above 200 pounds
and the squad is small, these experienced boys—all of
them have high school letters—under the coaching of
Jack Hennemier and Dan Justice look like a real threat
to the freshmen they face in their final games.

Most of the punting duties fall to Dick Working and
Sam DeBlasi, though Coleman also gets good distance on

his kicks. DiBlasi kicked field goal and point after con-

version against Richmond.

Coleman, who weighs only 170, has caused many a
headache on the varsity team. An unforeseeable sidestep
and relentless drive more than make up for his lack of
size. Coupled with his exceptional passing ability, this
makes Coleman one of the most versatile men on the team.

One game remains on the schedule for the Brigadiers,
that with Maryland. The players are confident of victory,
and if the sort of ball they played against S. M.A., Rich-
mond, VPI, and Virginia is prophetic of what is to come,
they may not be disappointed. They have proved that a
fast hard-hitting backfield and charging, if outweighed
line, are a tough combination to beat.

First team line-up for the remaining game will prob-
ably be: Tucek, Malmquist, DiBlasi and Working as

 

 

1941 COACHING STAFF: Riley Smith, Head Coach; Waren E. (Tex) Tilson, Line Coach; Jack Hennemier, Fresh-
man Coach; Harold (Cookie) Cunnlngham, End Coach; and Dan Justice, Freshman Backfield Coach

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Washington and Lee’s first lightweight football team

backs, with the line composed of Norman at center, Red
Coulter and Carter Kelly as tackles, Bill Otter and Bob
Crocket as guards, and Joe Recchie and Pinkie Norman
as ends.

Lightweight football—some-

Lightweight thing new in the South and

By C. Tom Garten, 1941 at Washington and Lee—hbe-
gan its Southern campaign in Virginia, October 3rd
when the Washington and Lee team engaged Hampden-
Sydney there in the first scheduled game, ending in a
scoreless tie. The lightweights played their first game in
Lexington, October 11, when they defeated a strong
Roanoke College team 32-0.

The 150-pound Generals are members of the Light-
weight Football League of Virginia, organized last
spring, and including Roanoke College, Hampden-Syd-

ney, William and Mary, Virginia, Randolph- Macon, and >

Richmond.

The purpose of the league, as stated in the by-laws, is
“to provide football play and competition for the large
number of students in each institution who are excluded
from: varsity and freshman competition because of
weight.” The fact that approximately 45 boys turned
out for the Washington and Lee team is evidence of the
interest shown on this campus.

The by-laws of the league prohibit any team from
playing more than six games during the season, which
starts the first Friday in October and ends the second
Saturday in November. The lightweight Generals will
play, besides Hampden-Sydney and Roanoke College,
William and Mary at Williamsburg, November Ist; and

otherwise “‘on its own”’

the University of Virginia in Lexington on November ;
The Virginia league was formed last spring, whe
two Washington and Lee students, Bill Armstrong and
Walt Downie, conceived the idea that lightweight foot.
ball, as they had seen it played in the Eastern states,
would be a good innovation for the Washington and Lat
campus. After receiving the approval of the universit y
administration and athletic officials, they received th
support of the majority of the student body nro
signed questionnaires. .
On the Washington and Lee campus, “Cy” Your
alumni secretary, and Jerry Holstein, 1932, Lexington at.
torney, agreed to coach the team. Each player paid five
dollars to help defray the cost of equipment, on whicl
$200 had been contributed by the Alumni Association
and $100 by an anomymous donor. 7
The university athletic association has lent pads
practice Jerse: and a few headgears, but the team i
in securing equipment. 4
League rules are similar to varsity football rules, ex
cept that no player may enter the game unless he weigh
under 154 pounds an hour, before the game starts. Unt
versity. regulations govern the eligibility of slag
Scouting, pre-season: ‘practice, and dehydration are dis
couraged by the league. tao
The chief object of’ the team, besides winning, 1s
see that every boy gets a chance to: play in each game
Coaches Young and Holstein ‘are, well pleased with th
enthusiasm the boys have shown. in practice, and have eX
pressed themselves as saying that boys too light to play
on the varsity and freshmen teams will now have ¢
chance to show their football talent. 1

[ 14 |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Tex Tilson Takes a New Job

By MarsHati_ Jonunson, 1941

HE announcement by Warren Tilson, 1926, early in
Be tember that at the close of the present season he
will relinquish his duties as football line-coach brings to a

close eleven years of service to Washington and Lee foot-

ball.
Leaving the steering of future General elevens in the

hands of the present coaching staff, Tilson will become
general manager of the McCrum Drug Company, a
new departure in a career which has
included the direction, as head coach,
of one Southern Conference champion-
ship team and three state champion-
ship elevens.

Though the won-lost records of
Big Blue teams in recent years were
only medicore, Tilson’s elevens earned
the respect of all opposing teams for
their clean playing, sportsmanship and
“never-say-die”’ spirit.

In handing in his resignation on
September 16, Tilson said: “It is with
sincere regret that I sever my relations
with Washington and Lee. However,
since [ am fortunate enough to remain
in the friendly city of Lexington, I
will not be losing as much as one who
leaves the community.

“My associations with the University and the athletic
officials have been nothing but the finest and happiest as
far as I am concerned. It will be difficult not to be closely
associated with the football boys, but I have always
wanted to take a swing at the business world and this
Opportunity is so good I could not refuse.”

He expressed much the same sentiment when he re-
signed as head coach last April. At that time, Tex said
he believed “that the best interests of Washington and
Lee and the football team will be served,’ and added, “I
believe the alumni, students and faculty will give more
support to the football team with another man in charge.”

Athletic Director R. A. Smith, as well as members of
the coaching staff, were generous in their praise of Tilson,
all expressing their reluctance to see him leave the grid-
'Ton coaching field for other pursuits.

Cap’n Dick, one of ‘Tilson’s closest friends, com-
Nented, “’T’ex’s resignation is undoubtedly Washington

 

Warren E. (Tex) ‘Tilson

and Lee’s loss. There is a great deal of sorrow in this
announcement for me, as he has been one of the most
loyal coaches that we have ever had, not only to the insti-
tution but to the boys and myself. However, there 1s
great satisfaction in the thought that he will still make
Lexington his home and that we will not lose his wise
counsel and advice. He certainly carries with him the
hearty support of us all.”

Expressing the sentiment of the
coaching staff, new Head Coach Riley
Smith said, “We are extremely sorry
to learn of Tex's. resignation, and 1
know that I, for one, will miss him
very much. His leaving Washington
and Lee is eased by the fact that he will
remain in Lexington, and I’m sure he
still will be able to help us a great deal.
All of us on the coaching staff wish
Tex the best of luck in his new work.”’

Tilson’s action last April, not only
brought to an end an eight-year tenure
as head coach, but marked the close of
the “old guard’’ coaching regime
throughout the state. Because he had
one year remaining on a_ two-year
contract, the resignation came as a
surprise despite the poor showing of
the 1940 eleven, which won only two games.

After leaving Washington and Lee and his under-
graduate days, Tilson served several years as assistant
coach at Duke, returning to Lexington as assistant coach
to Jimmy DeHart in 1931.

Tex took over as head coach after the disastrous 1932
season, and held that position until his resignation last
April. In his first year as coach, his team won the state
championship, although the record showed four wins,
four losses and two ties against all opposition.

Thus the 1941 football campaign marks the end of
the road for one of Washington and Lee’s greatest
coaches, and the start of the 1942 season will inaugurate
a new era in Big Blue football history with entire super-
vision of the team left to a group of non-alumni, Smith
and assistants, Jack Hennemier and ‘‘Cookie’ Cunning-
ham. Another assistant will be named later in the year.

(Continued on page 20)

 

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam
1889

Dr. JAMES H. Smoot, long a leading physician of
Woodstock, Virginia, died on September 25th at the age
of 74.

A native of Shenandoah County, he studied medicine
in Baltimore after leaving Washington and Lee. For a
number of years he served as president of the Shenan-
doah Fair Association and was a director of the Shenan-
doah County Bank and Trust Company. He was co-
founder of a local drug company but had sold his interest
in it some time ago.

Dr. Smoot is survived by a daughter and two sisters.

1898

THE REVEREND Dr. J. McD. Lacy died suddenly at
his home in Elkins, West Virginia, on September 31st. He
was 64 years old.

Dr. Lacy, who was a graduate of Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary as well as Washington and Lee, was a
native of Missouri and a former resident of Washing-
ton, D. C. He had served churches in Norton, and Ma-
rion, Virginia; and in Hinton, West Virginia, before go-
ing to Elkins in 1919. He was chaplain of Davis and
Filkins College. Dr. Lacy’s father, Judge John Lacy, was
at one time a member of the Washington and Lee Board
of Trustees.

Surviving are his widow and two daughters.

1938

Davin W. Hancock, who attended Washington and
Lee for two years before transferring to the University
of Indiana in 1936, was killed in an airplane accident on
Jialy 29.

As a flying cadet, Hancock was being given a lesson
in instrument flying by Lieutenant Redd of Barksdale

 

About Our Covers

The air views of the campus and surroundings
on the cover and frontispiece were taken in May,
194f by deol. Perry, 1941 ond he S:. Rens,
1941, respectively. At the time, both these men
were students in Physics 154 at Washington and
Lee, and took the photographs as a class assign-
ment. Both men are licensed pilots.

The back cover is from the Calyx of 1941.

 

 

 

| 16 |

   
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
    

Field, Shreveport, Louisiana, when the plane crash
near Waskom on the Texas-Louisiana border. The reas
for the accident was unknown since the Bee burned
cinders.

Mr. Hancock, a member of Delta Tau Delta, is gs
vived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. V. H. Hancock 9
Morocco, Indiana, two brothers, and one sister, as wel] ac
his uncle and aunt, Dr. and Mrs. Glover D. Hancock
the Washington and Lee faculty. He was twenty-f
years old at the time of his death.

 

New Arrivals

1934

Mr. AND Mrs. JEssE Letcu of Hamlet, North Ca
lina, announced the birth of Hinton Leigh on Fr
July 18th.

1937

Mr. anp Mrs. Figtp—EN Woopwarp announced 1
birth of a daughter on Wednesday, August 20th. Hi
name is Lucy, and her address, 2740 Frankfort Ave
Louisville, Kentucky.

Mr. AND Mrs. Ropert R. Rapciirr are the parent
of a daughter born April 21st at Providence, R
Island. Her name is Robbie Lee.

 

Military Attache

(Continued from page 11)

Minister to Sweden by letter, but just before our ple
took off on the 11th, my orders were reversed, and I w
instructed to go in person to Stockholm. As you kno
poor Bob was killed just ten days later by a German bom
and the Air Corps lost one of its finest young officers.

“Our regularly-appointed Military Attache to Swed
en, for whom I had been pinch-hitting, arrived soon after.
ward, and I was eventually ordered home. I came back
by way of Berlin, Rome, and Naples, and sailed from the
latter place on June 28th on the “Excalibur,” which }
think is to date the last American ship to leave the Mee
iterranean. In Berlin, I happened to hit the first Britis
air raid since the first week of the war, and somebody f
marked that I ought to be able to collect something iro on
almost any country in Europe just to stay out of it. '

“T arrived in New York on July 11th, and that corr
pletes the round trip and this narrative.” q

At present writing, Colonel Hayne is still in thi
country, his address being Room 3542, Munitions Bil
ing, Washington, D. C. q

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A New Book by Protessor Watkin

GENTLEMAN From ENcLanp by Lawrence E. Watkin,
New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 1941.

Professor Lawrence E,. Watkin is establishing a rec-
ord for fertility and variety as a writer. It was only four
years ago that he published his first novel, the whimsical
“On Borrowed Time,” of Hollywood and Broadway
fame. About a year later he brought out “Geese In the
Forum,” a heart-warming guffaw at the
Stuffed Shirt Academicus. This fall he
has published a book for children, Ver
Thomas Jones and His Nine Lives,”
and now he crashes through with “Gen-
tleman from England,’ a historical and
picaresque novel, quite different from
anything he has attempted before.

We have one warning to issue about
“Gentleman from England.” Do not be-
gin it at midnight, for if you do, you
will not get to bed before sunup. By that
time you will have finished the three hun-
dred pages of this high-octane romance,
so full of fight and so fast that it would
appear to be equipped with the turbo-
supercharger of the Flying Fortress.

Not that “Gentleman from England”
is by any means modern except in its
velocity. It is a story of the year 1785,
and it fulfills the first function of the
historical novel by giving a correct and
colorful background of the time. Any
reader not a professional historian will
retire from the Watkin romance a wiser man on the state
of the Union, the roads, and the taverns in the year#1795.

The book also upholds the tradition of the Watkin
wit. Any reader not a professional sourpuss will retire
from it ina mood of mental and abdominal hilarity.

But when all is said and done, the tale’s the thing in
this novel of the frontier highway. Not Gil Blas, nor
Don Quixote, nor Joseph Andrews had more remarkable
adventures than Peter Mclean. They, however, were not
equipped with superchargers. In something like a week
Or ten days as nearly as we can calculate the time, Peter
McLean is smitten with three ladies and smites one mob
and eleven individual men. The ladies, to show the hero’s
catholic taste, include a wife, a widow, and a maid. The
§entlemen, and the various weapons by which they are

 

Lawrence E. Watkin

dispatched, require a slightly more elaborate treatment.

Peter McLean, son of an honest Tory, returns to
Philadelphia to wring his confiscated inheritance from
the clutches of a dishonest “‘patriot.’’ All he can get is a
tract of land in wild Kentucky, and, in revenge, he kid-
naps his enemy’s daughter, with a view to holding her as
hostage for the rest of his patrimony. So much for battle
number one. Before he gets out of town,
Peter, single-handed, defeats a mob and
rescues President Washington.

After that he takes the open road. He
is waylaid by two hirelings of the father,
but, though they cover him with pistols,
he puts them to flight by transfixing one
with a mumble-peg fling of the sword.
Then he horse-whips a Pennsylvania
Dutchman for maltreating a _ colored
brother. Then he beats, with educated
fists, two louts who permit themselves to
De inpertient at tae ford’ of accréek:
Then he tangles with a frontier eye-
gouger and is saved from blindness by
a widow with a pistol. Then he fights
two consecutive duels, each of which
has a miraculous ending. Finally, in the
Lexington Court House, when he is
covered by two Kentucky mountain men,
he makes a lightning draw of his two
dueling pistols and blows both the vil-
lians down. :

At the center of all this activity is a
non-pareil situation. Every night the hero sleeps in the
room with the kidnapped girl. She thinks herself his
wife, but he is too chivalrous—often by a narrow mar-
gin—to take advantage. One can imagine the by-play
that the Watkin wit makes with such a situation, not to
mention the harrowing suspense, which brings the reader
haggard to the happy photo finish.

But to put the plot so briefly is to be unfair. It is to
forget the fine background in which the action is em-
bedded: the Bingham ball in Philadelphia; the Pennsyl-
vania Dutch, who ‘‘keep their cows in big barns and their
wives in little barns;’ the generous, impractical Vir-
ginians in their threadbare mansion, who invite the young
couple to “stay for a year or two.”

To put the plot so briefly is to forget the characters.

[ 17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Of course they cannot be carefully analyzed in a work
so rapid, but many of them are just and vivid. One of the
most life-like is Gallimore (Shades of Edmund Spenser )
a frontiersman with muscles of steel and heart of gold.
To put the plot so briefly is to ignore the air of the
eighteenth century, the period that Professor Watkin
teaches. The “Gentleman from England” and _ several
of the Virginia gentlemen are fine examples of the
eighteenth century gallant, and much of their conversa-
tion is worthy both of Watkin and of his favorite period
literature and history.
And finally, no estimate of this book could be com-
pletg without a word of praise for the prose style. It is
eer graceful, economical, smooth, like the move-
ments of an eighteenth-century fencer. Washington and
Lee has a right to be proud of “Gentleman from England.”
+—FYJTZGERALD FLOURNOY; 1921.

 

A Timely Text in German

Reapincs tn Miritary GERMAN by W. W. Pusey and
A. G. Steer, Lexington, Virginia, 1941.

College students of our own generation recall how
German was dropped right and left from curricular re-
quirements after 1917 with the result that many of us
who had need of this language later on found ourselves
without knowledge of it. But in this war the attitude of
the colleges seems to be quite different. It would appear
that the United States has come to realize that one way to
beat an enemy is to know as much as possible about him.

It was with something like this in mind that two
members of the Washington and Lee Department of
German, Professors William W. Pusey, and Albert G.
Steer (the latter now on leave of absence as an officer in
the United States Navy), collected specimens of military
German for study in their classes. The most useful of
these selections have been published this year under the
title, Readings in Military German.

This book, say the editors, “is designed as an intro-
duction to military German and presupposes a basic vo-
cabulary and a fair reading knowledge of German. ... It
is up to date to the end of 1940, and the material, drawn
chiefly from German military periodicals, is representa-
tive. The editors have attempted to choose and edit ma-
terial of a descriptive and documentary nature, but it
has not always been possible to exlude all propaganda. . . .
The student is warned that the protestations of Nazi
greatness . . . . reflect the sentiments of the German
Ministry of Propaganda but not those of the editors.”

Students at Washington and Lee and elsewhere who
use this text will become familiar with the specialized

[18 ]

 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

covabulary used by the German army, navy, and
force, both in description of equipment and account
battles. Perhaps efforts like this will help some day
prevent an unfortunate conclusion to a certain sequen
of chapters in this book’s section on the Luftwaffe. Th
chapters are: “Flieger sur See,” “Bomben auf Engla
Flotte,’ “Angriffe der deutschen Luftwaffe auf Englan
Maybe Dr. Pusey’s students will help to prevent: “4
griffe der deutschen Luftwaffe auf New York.”

 

Campus Comment
(Continued from page 9)

moved the dates of Opening Dances from October 31
and November 1 to November 14 and 15, to tie in with
Homecoming and make one big weekend out of two smal-
ler ones. . The Homecoming game will be Saturday "
November is. when the Generals meet Davidson on
Wilson Field... . Art Koontz, president of the Opening
Dance Set, has announced that Tony Pastor’s orchestre
will play. |
Due to the losses on Washington and Lee dances dur.
ing the past two years, the dance board has been forced t tc
cut the budgets of Openings and the Spring set by aroun
$400.00 each, in an effort to show a profit and build u

the reserve fund.

The Interfraternity council’s second annual informa 7
dance on October 4 netted a profit of around $450.00, ¢
of which was turned over to the Monogram club for th
sweater fund. . The Southern Collegians, camptt
swingsters, fae iebed the music. 3

Fall elections on October 6 put the following boys it
office: Ed Boyd, president of the senior academic class;
Tom Fleming, president of the senior commerce class:
Ralph Stewart, president of the senior science class; Bill
Hopkins, president of the freshman law class; Jack i
Fisher and Aubrey Matthews, senior representatives on
the student executive committee; and Bill Stark, fresh -
man representative on the executive committee. ]

Nick Graff, 1940, genial host at one of Lexington’ :
popular restaurants, was missing this fall when student:
returned to town. . He has been drafted and is now
stationed at Geadicllow Field, Texas. 4

Work on the new intramural field, sorely needed
Washington and Lee for many years, has been start
and contractors promise completion sometime befor (
Christmas. .. . Football teams of the 18 fraternities have
begun practice for intramural play, which is to start im
mediately. . . . With the completion of the intramura
field, the rt problem at Washington and Lee wil
have come a long way toward being solved. 4

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

-4 Detroit Alumni, their wives, and parents
Detroit of boys now at the University held their
annual meeting at the Whittier Hotel, Friday night,
October 10. Full justice was done an excellent chicken
dinner as was evidenced by the lusty voices which ac-
companied the accordionist in the “Swing. Chairman
Frank S. Stipes, 1919, who came from Flint to be with
the boys and girls, was introduced by Edward Lyons, 1912.
Frank awakened latent fond memories by reminisences
about Lexington at 12:01 midnight, and the full moon
which one can almost always see in Lexington.

The stellar attraction of the meeting was an informal
though intensely interesting talk by Colonel Harry W.
Miller, 1907, Head of Engineering Drawing at the Uni-
versity of Michigan and U. S. Army expert on Heavy
Ordance. Colonel Miller traced the causes which led to
World War I, and those which started the present con-
flict, its possible effects on the future of the world, our
own stake in an allied victory, what we are doing now to
meet the crisis, and what we should do in the days to
come. No American who hates the present conditions in
Europe and who loves his American freedom can afford
to be complacent about it.

Among those present at the meeting were: From
Detroit: Alexander W. Blain, 1939, and Mrs. Blain;
Charles F. Clarke, 1938; H. O. Danielson, 1936; Sherwin
B. French, 1939; Ralph Hummel, 1920, and Mrs. Hum-
mel; George L. Hughes, 1909; Stewart E. Lawrence,
1934; Edward Lyons, 1912, and Mrs. Lyons; Robert E.
Milligan, Jr., 1939; Harold R. Sullivan, 1926; Alfred F.
Taylor, 1927, and Mrs. Taylor; Lauren D. Wild, 1939,
and Mrs. Wild. From Ann Arbor: Colonel Harry W.
Miller, 1907. From Flint: Frank C. Stipes, 1919; Reese
W. Stipes, 1928, and their guest, Arthur Weiss. From
Lansing: Chan W. Gordon, 1931. And last but not least,
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Jamieson, parents of Doug Jamie-
son of the class of 1940, who is now with Uncle Sam's
forces at Camp Eustice, and Mr. and Mrs. Robert D.
McKay, uncle and aunt of student Leroy J. Stephens,
now at Washington and Lee.

Plans for next year are, “On to Ann Arbor.”

: ; The Louisville association met at
Louisville the Louisville Boat Club on August
27th, assembling at 4:30 p.m. to engage in a game of soft-
ball, in which the Washington and Lee Whites defeated
the Washington and Lee Blues 10-7.

Dinner was served at seven o'clock and was followed
by a speech of welcome by President Oldham Clark to
the guests, a group of boys entering the university this
year. Other speeches were by Bob Hobson, Jr., concerning
the athletic potentialities of Washington and Lee for the
coming year; a short talk by M. R. “Jug” Nelson, on
freshman life in general, and what the secretary, Krnest
B. Walker, describes as “an extremely funny joke’ by
Peel Rivers, who was also the originator of the softball
idea.

Among those present were: Horace M. Barker, Dr. R.
Alexander Bate, Jr., George E. Burks, Ernest 5. Clarke,
Jr., Oldham Clarke, John J. Davis, Jr., G. Richard Day,
Wm. H. Day, Edward A. Dodd, Robert T. Foree, Jr.,
J. H. Hardwick, T. Kennedy Helm, Jr., Henry K. Hill,
Robert P. Hobson, Jr., Benjamin M. Kaplan, Joseph J.
Kaplan, Murrel D. Klein, Wathen R. Knebelkamp, M. ie
Nelson, Thomas C. Nugent, Jr., Dr. Alvin B. Artner,
Peel Rivers, Farris A. Sampson, Charles Semple, Jr.,
Milton H. Smith, Robert Stein, Luther Violette, Ernest
B. Walker, Jr., Don Wallis, Wm. E. Whaley, Jr.

; As a prelude to the Washington
Washington and lLee-George Washington
University football game on October 10, the Washington
alumni chapter held a luncheon at the Harrington Hotel.
More than 40 alumni gathered to hear Coach Riley Smith
of the Generals deliver the obsequies over the two losses
produced in the season’s opening games, and pronounce
his prognostication (which came true) for the scrap-on-

hand with G. W. U.

Brian Bell, Associated Press chief of bureau for
Washington’s all-important news nerve-center, presided
over the luncheon meeting as president of the chapter.
Alex Walker, secretary-treasurer of the chapter, handled
the finances and conducted the ticket sale for the ball
game.

Eddie Cameron, ’24, backfield coach and scout for
Duke University’s Bowl candidates, hopped off a train
in Union Station about noon and upon seeing a small but
significant notice in the local paper that “the minks were
gathered” over at the Hotel for lunch, immediately decid-
ed that was the logical place for him to be, and so post-
poned his scheduled trip to Ann Arbor, Michigan for a
few hours and turned up as a surprise visitor, and was

[ 19 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

more surprised himself when asked to speak, but pro-
duced in his usual good-natured manner.

Mr. Bell announced the annual smoker would be held
in Washington on November 19, eve of the Generals’
game with Maryland at College Park.

Zack Rogers, '27, district manager for The Liebel-
Flarsheim Company of Cincinnati, presented Riley Smith
with a brand new short-wave diathermy machine for the
Washington and Lee trainer’s quarters. The machine,
comprising a very elaborate gift, was termed “a God-
send” by Coach Smith.

Augmenting the usual crowd of veteran members
were several of the city’s late arrivals, Washington and
Lee graduates here on defense assignments, some civilian,
some military.

Among those present were:

William C. Barbee, Brian Bell, Lea Booth, Rudolph
Bumgardner, Jr.,
Madison P. Coe, Frank Cole, Wade H. Ellis, Lieutenant
George Gilleland, Robert C. Gilmore, Herbert M. Grif-
fith, Fred Guthrie, Fanning Hearon, J.C. Hernandez,
Joseph M. Holt, Frank Hynson, Richard W. Hynson,
H. W. Kelly, B. R. Kennedy, Eldon P. King, Milton K.
Lockwood, Charles J. Mower, FE. M. Nuckols, Jr., Fred
Pitzer, Jr., Massey L,. Printz, Leonard B. Randon, Lieu-
tenant Harry M. Rhett, Jr., Wilson M. Roach, Zack B.
Rogers, Riley Smith, Kenneth E. Spencer, David EF.
Strain, Charles F. Suter, Walter G. Thomas, A. Dawson
Trundle, Alex M. Walker, E. T. Whitehead, Torrence
Wolford, J. Arthur Wood, Norman M. Yonan.

Baltimore ne August Det; - the Baltimore

lumni and students entertained the
men entering Washington and Lee this fall from this
vicinity at a buffet supper at the Baltimore Country Club.
A similar affair last year was so well received that the
chapter decided to repeat it this year. Twenty-five alumni
and students were present with new students as guests.
No entertainment was provided, but all seemed to enjoy
a few hours of good fellowship and a chance to renew
friendship, and the opportunity to meet some of the young
men who will enter the University this year.

 

Last Aucust, William P. Diggs, 1935, was appointed
secretary to the Board of Police Commissioners of the
city of St. Louis. After graduation here, Mr. Diggs at-
tended the Harvard Business School and was subsequent-
ly employed by the E. E. Haverstick Company of 5t.
Louis as statistician. His new job is one of considerable
importance and an especial honor to such a young
alumnus.

| 20 |

William O. Burtner, Eddie Cameron,

plans of the Treasury for financing national defense wil

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Tex Tilson Takes a New lob

(Continued from page 15)

Alumni friends will surely join in wishing Tex @ all
kinds of success in his new job, which is one that a
mean great responsibilities. Nowadays, McCrum’s is ¢ a
pretty big organization, what with an extensive creamery.
the local bus concession, the florist corner, a large photo.
graphic sideline, the makings of a restaurant, and prob-
ably a number of other things. It will take a good busi. :
ness man to run such a concern successfully, but Tex ha:
proved himself to be that good a business man in the suc.
cess of his boys’ camp and in other ventures. McCrum’;
probably knows as well as the rest of us that he will cal
the signals right. q

 

Frrenps of Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., 1916, who remem-
ber him as editor of The Ring-tum Phi during their tn.
dergraduate days, will be delighted to hear that he is stil 1
following the same business except that this time he has :
become publisher of the new national magazine, Finance

Until this summer, the magazine had been publish
for forty-three years under the name of The Chi
Banker. As such, it was chiefly concerned with local fi
nancial developments, but under the reorganization, its
scope will be national. According to Mr. Lewis, as quotec
in the New York Times, ‘Finance will cover the whole
field of finance in a modern, newsworthy manner. The 2

be carefully reported as well as all Washington activill
affecting banking and finance. The financial weekly wil
have five general departments, covering commercia 1
banking, investment banking, finance companies, a
ganized banking, and popular finance.’ 3

Mr. Lewis, who resigned on July 1 as executive vice :
president of the Metropolitan Trust Company to tal xe
over his new position, was a member of Alpha Tat
Omega and Omicron Delta Kappa while in college. After
a term in the army, he was discharged as Ist Lieutenan
in 1919 and became Washington Correspondent for th
New York Journal of Commerce from 1922 to 1924. Hi
subsequent experience in both finance and journalisn
should fit him admirably for his new task. 4

 

Wittiam McCuesneEy Martin, 1895, member § 0
the University Board of ‘Trustees, has announced th
formation of a partnership for the general practice ©
law, under the name of Martin, Peper and Martin, 40:
North Eighth Street, St. Louis, Missouri. He has re
cently been Governor of the Federal Reserve Bank 0

St. Louis.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

‘Class Notes

 

1874
BisHop JAMES Rk. Wi1n-
cHESTER, after a long and bril-
liant career, is now retired and
living with a daughter at 1538
East Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

 

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

LOOZ,
West Virginia.

lives in Martinsburg,

Joun W. Davis says he ran
past his sixty-eighth mile stone

on Sunday, April 13, and that
the doctor who makes his annual

 

check-up reports that no springs

 

1879

JouN M. GLENN lives at One Lexington Avenue,
New York.
1887

Dr. Brown Craic Parrerson has resigned his duties
as teacher and associate administrator in the South China
Theological Seminary at Tenghsien, China, and is now
living at his old home near Staunton, Virginia. He says
that the Theological Seminary is the largest in China and
is still going strong even under the heel of the invader.

1888
Jupce Henry W. Hott, Judge of the Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia, is living in Staunton, Virginia.
W. J. Humpureys’ address is The Cosmos Club,
Washington, D. C. |

GREENLEE D. Lercuerr, still practicing law in Lex-
ington. Virginia. He is active in civic affairs and a loyal
alumnus of both the Virginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee University.

1890

Aucustus K. Bowtss has his offices at 30 Rockefel-
ler Plaza, New York. His home is in Fast -
Orange, New Jersey.

SENATOR F. M. Hupson, member of
the law firm of Hudson and Cason, Seybold
Building, Miami, Florida, writes that he
has not made a hole-in-one or been struck
by lightning and can thing of nothing im-
portant to write about except that he would
like to brag about his grandchildren, but

that that is his wife’s prerogative.

1892 : ™~—
Wittram C. (“Levr’) Morton, the
very active Class Agent for the Class of eval i

will) my Hi i

  
     

a: = ‘
e? es

 

are broken and that the engine
is functioning. His address is 15 Broad Street, New York.

Vines E. TurNBULL modestly says he would have
to be a writer of fiction to dress up any facts about him-
self that would be interesting. So ‘“no-can-do.” He 1s
Disbursing Officer, Third Naval District, 90 Church
Street, New York.

1893

Dr. GEorGE BoLtine LEE, practicing his profession
with offices in The Plaza, New York City, says he con-
siders assistance to Washington and Lee the same as
putting money in the plate at church.

B. A. Jupp, Class Agent forthe Class-of 1893, is
practicing law at 25 Broad Street, New York.

Harry W. Myers, since returning to Japan after a
furlough last year, has had some very strenuous times.
He says, “Among other phases of the past year, the
foreign presidents of all Christian institutions had to re-
sign. At the urgent request of my Board of Trustees, I
kept on as President of the Theological Seminary ’till last
month (May). For about six months I think I was the
only foreigner continuing as president of any school in
Japan. Now I am a mere professor, and am able to enjoy
life more.” His new address is 24 Nakaya-
mate Dori, 2 Chrome, Kobe, Japan.

R. E. WapE is now retired and lives at
3850 Lyman Road, Oakland, California.
He keeps up contact through correspond-
ence with his old chum and roommate at
the Old Blue,’ Pop Albricht, of Cotum-

bus, Mississippi.

1895

Joun P. Wacker, District Central En-

CN wil? gineer, General Land Office, Boise, Idaho,

willy
hl i Msn

 

wants to know what has become of all the

talent in the class of 1895, since it has

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

become necessary for the Alumni Office to act as its Class
Agent. He appreciates our efforts but would like to hear
from a classmate next year.

1897

PETRIE HAmivton, 408 Walnut Street, New Orleans,
has sent to the Chemical Library a set of Proceedings
of the American Wood Preservers Association, which
will be a valuable addition to its shelves.

1898

Epwarp A. O’NEAL, Class Agent for 1898, 58 E.
Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois, is still President of
the American Farm Bureau Federation. Naturally, these
days, he has plenty on his mind.

S. GarRLAND Hammer, member of the law firm of
Edmunds and Hammer, Peoples Bank Building, Lynch-
burg, Virginia, recalls that when he arrived in Lexing-
ton, a freshman of seventeen who had never been away
from home before, he was visited by friends of his Class
Agent, Ed O’Neal, soliciting his vote for Mr. O’Neal as
president of the Final Ball. Mr. O’Neal was elected and
Mr. Hammer has never regretted his hasty decision.

NorMAN FitTzHUGH was a visitor to the campus at
Finals. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Charleston,
West Virginia, with offices in the Kanawha Banking &
Trust Building.

CHARLES J. FAULKNER, JR., received an honorary
degree from the University at Finals, and his friends
here in Lexington enjoyed seeing him again after too
long an absence from the campus.

Rospert W. Mayo is practicing law in the Kirby
Building, Dallas, Texas. He wishes that he could see in
the flesh some of the old boys that were on the Washing-
ton and Lee baseball team with him when he played short-
stop and had few of the cares that come with the years.
He says that since the danger is upon us and we cannot
honorably escape it, he is glad to report that his only two
sons have volunteered and are now in military service of
the United States, one as an artillery officer and the
other as a Cadet Pilot in the Naval Aviation Corps.

1899
A. B. WINFREE, Class Agent for ’99, is a member of
the law firm of Teal, Winfree, McCulloch, Shuler & Kel-
ley, Spalding Building, Portland, Oregon. His son is in
the Field Artillery stationed at Fort Ord in California.

TRUMAN S. VANCE is a Real Estate Broker in Staun-
ton, Virginia. His two daughters have graduated with

[ 22 ]

  
    
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  

the A.B. degree from Mary Baldwin College. One jg .

medical technician and the other teaches art at Toe
Museum. His son has been called for the draft. |My
Vance says he is in fine health but wishes the Lord hal J
taken a hint from our present day tailors, who mal J
suits with two pairs of pants, and turned a man out wit tl
two pairs of legs. %

CoLoNEL ArtTHUR M. Suipp was retired from acti
duty for physical disibilty, incident to the service in 1934 :
He and his wife and two daughters live at 2350 Granad
Way South, St. Petersburg, Florida. He is a frequen !
visitor to Lexington, where he has many friends, hii
father, Col. Scott Shipp, having been Superintendent 0 0
the Virginia Military Institute for fifty years. ‘

C. P. SnypkEr, Rear Admiral, United States Natl .
was made a member of the General Board in Washing.
ton in February, 1941. On the 20th day of May last, hi
had been in the Navy 45 years, ever since leaving Wash
ington and Lee in 1896. 4

1900

S. Rurrin Horne, Class Agent for 1900, is a mem n |
ber of the firm of H. R. Horne & Sons, Pharmacists
Fayetteville, North Carolina.

J. Ran Tucker is a member of the law firm of Tuck
er, Bronson, Satterfield & Mays, State-Planters Bank
Building, Richmond, Virginia. He says: “Disruption in
our country and in the world is such that I feel that f D
many years to come the thoughts and efforts of each on
of us will necessarily be turned toward preservation o
a way of living that we BL ae: to be best. I trust that thy
effort may not be in vain.’ }

1901

ALBERT GALLATIN JENKINS is now living at 110.
Campbell Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia. He writes poems
which frequently appear in the New York Times. He ha
presented the Alumni Office with a photograph of th
Football Team of 1896, which is greatly appreciated. _

Joun M. Corzerr, Class Agent for 1901, is practi
ing law in Bay City, Texas. 1
ly. D. Orr is practicing law in Harrisonburg, Virginia

4

Hate M. Hovsron, with the address P.O. Box 1136
Austin, Texas, gives no news of himself. 4

CLARENCE C. Burns is practicing law in Lebanon
Virginia. : 3
1902 4

E. W. C. Boocusr, Class Agent for 1902, lives i
Merchantville, New Jersey, at 325 West Maple Avenue

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

He received replies from every member of his A.B. class,

with the exception of three.

Dr. Wittt1aAM ALLAN was awarded an honorary de-
sree from Washington and Lee at Finals. He says, ‘““My
Bio daughters have grown up and have scattered to
work. Mrs. Allan and the two boys are still growing up.
She looks forward to attending another Fancy Dress Ball
some day. My older boy expects to go to Carolina this
fall and the younger boy has his eye on Washington and
Lee in about three years.”

A. L. BurcrEr has been connected with the Lynch-
burg, Virginia, schools in various capacities, since 1907.
He is now Supervisor of Schools and Clerk of the School
Board and has the sub-title of Local Director of Trade
and Industrial Education. He has one son, twenty-four
years old, connected with the United States Engineering
Corps, stationed in Norfolk.

J. P. WALL promises to visit Washington and Lee
“about the time the leaves begin to color and brighten
this Fall.’ This will be his first visit since graduation in
1902. He says he is financially, domestically and philos-
ophically happily situated, and in this condition it is no
trouble to love all the world and wish them well. Mr. Wall
is practicing law at 5414 Leary Avenue, Seattle, Wash-
ington.

Dr. R. F. Cooper was for eighteen years president of
a Junior College under the control of the Presbyterian
Church, located at Holly Springs, Mississippi. This
junior college has now been consolidated with the senior
college, Belhaven College, Jackson, Mississippi. Dr. Coop-
er is vice-president of this college. His son, Robert F., Jr.,
graduated from Washington and Lee in 1935.

1903

k. A. Rurr, Class Agent for 1903, lives at Elkhorn,
West Virginia.

J. F. Wysor has been County Treasurer of Pulaski
County since September 1, 1906—nearly thirty-five years.
He is a bachelor and admits that he is “arriving at a
stage in life when I am going to be on the rocks with no
One to hold my head.”

Grorck Cooper Giggs, upon the expiration of his
term as Attorney-General of the State of Florida, re-
turned to Jacksonville and re-opened his old law office,
Suite 1001, Bisbee Building. During his term of office a
Complete revision of the laws of the State of Florida was
Prepared for presentation to the State Legislature. He
hopes the new code will soon be adopted.

JAMES WaArRREN BaAGLeEy reports another pleasant
year in the Institute of Geographical Exploration at Har-
vard where he has been teaching since retiring from the
United States Army, even though he has to teach extra
courses in Engineering Defense Training. His home is
at 2 Divinity Avenue, Canibridge, Massachusetts.

W. J. Turner, Braden Cooper Company, Rancagua,
Chile, is still in the same company with which he has been
employed for over thirty years. He says, “At present we
are mining about 25,0CO tons of ore a day, and our cop-
per production, amounting to about 11,000 tons of cop-
per per month, is being shipped entirely to the United
States, where it is going, mainly, into materials for de-
fense. We employ about 8,500 people, of whom, natural-
ly, roughly 97 percent are Chileans, the other 3 percent
being a mixture of some fifteen nationalities.”’

1904

J) Bo Akers, Class Agent. for 1904, lives at 3415
Fulton Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. He has been
with the Southern Railway System ever since leaving
college and has spent his life so far in maintenance-of-
way work.

JoHN Henry Day, Law, 1904, Doctor of Divinity,
1923, is in his 16th year as minister of the Seventh Bap-
tist Church of Baltimore, one of the larger churches of
that denomination in the state. His three older children
are married, and he is the proud grandfather of three
lusty boys. His youngest son is in his third year at the
Medical School of the University of Maryland. He sends
affectionate greetings to his former classmates.

Dr. 5. W. SCHAEFER, after living in Colorado for
some thirty years, is now one of the attending physicians
in charge of the big new Triboro Hospital for Tuber-
culosis opened in New York City on January lst of this
year, which hospital building got the award of Archi-
tectural Institution as the finest municipal building
erected in the country this last year.

1906

B. J. (“BarNnEy”) Mayer is a member of the law
firm of Lovejoy and Mayer, LaGrange, Georgia. He is
Class Agent for the Class of 1906.

Rosert —. Wirvr is living in the country near Lex-
ington, recuperating from a recent illness. He taught
Mathematics at the University of Detroit for a number
of years and later at Washington and Lee. Since that
time he has been Deputy Commissioner of Revenue for
Rockbridge County.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A. W. RuTAN is a member of the law firm of Rutan
and ‘Tucker, First National Bank Building, Santa Ana,
California. He and his wife made a trip to the Panama
Canal Zone in the spring.

Jimmig CasKie, member of the University Board of
Trustees, is a member of the law firm of Caskie, Frost
and Watts, Lynchburg, Virginia. He says he is still prac-
ticing but that he finds his time take up more and more
with outside business, such as church and benevolent
matters. He feels that his junior partners might under-
take to fire him for lack of attention to firm business.

A. M. Wrruers is a professor in the Department of
Foreign Language, Concord State Teachers College,
Athens, West Virginia. He says, “I have been in a good
many institutions, but I am certain that the student body
of Washington and Lee was the best of all that I have
seen, and this is a fact of which I have always been
proud.”

1907

Donatp W. M. MacCuuer, Class Agent for 1907 is
Pastor of the Rose City Park Community Church, Port-
land, Oregon. He says; “In 1910 I was graduated from
the Auburn Theological Seminary. There were 22 in
our class. One half of us got out to the foreign field. One
died out there and three of us were invalided home. But
that year we started a round robin. It has been running
ever since. Our class has hung together and we feel that
we know each other as well as we did in seminary.” He
has suggested a round robin for the Class of 1907.

Martin CARABELLO, Suite 312 Tampa Gas Company
Building, Tampa, Florida says, “There is not much I can
tell about myself, other than that I am still in the active
practice of law and dabbling somewhat in Inter-Ameri-
can affairs. I have three boys and a girl; the oldest Mar-
tin, Jr., my former law partner is now First Lieutenant
at Camp Blanding, Florida; the second, Julian is the
Assistant Business Manager of a newspaper publishing
concern in Washington. The next boy, Raymond, is a
First Lieutenant U.S.A., stationed at Trinadad, British
West India, and the youngest, Adelaide, is my secretary,
who is writing this letter. I have three grandchildren and
feel entirely at peace with the world and with my con-
science. While I weigh 158 pounds, that is not dispropor-
tionate to my height of 5 feet 8 inches, and at least in
“my own estimation, I am still ‘‘pretty good” physically.
When it comes to hair, that is quite another question.
There just isn’t any. So I am qualified to enter your con-
test for the one with the least hair.”

[ 24 |

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

WactTer N. Dous, 712 Rust Building, Tacoma, Was
ington, is engaged in the insurance and loan business,
has a family of four girls, one of whom is teaching, ~

PowELL Guass, The News, Lynchburg, Virgini i
says: ‘My life since leaving college has been here on tha
newspapers, except for the World War and various triy
to hospitals to get patched up after accidents, to which
seem prone. Several times I have been to the camp of
friend in the Canadian wilds, but was compelled by bus
ness reasons to decline his invitation this month. That
real trout fishing up there. :

‘“My son, also a graduate of Washington and Leal
now a lieutenant in the Marine Corps. He was in CH
during the winter; is now based at Paris Island, So r
Carolina, but is leaving for some destination unkno 1
the only clue being that he was instructed to take a winte
uniform. I get up to Lexington occasionally, as I hay
been quite interested in the School of Journalism estal 1
lished since our day; but my visits have been few the la
couple of years. As for the news letter, I’m no long
skinny but am carring the middle-aged spread over in
old age, 170 pounds; my hair is one of the few thin
retain in its pristine glory, and I would be glad to swap
for something useful—say a nice tooth or a good eye ¢ (
something. No appendix wanted. That was a good r ri
dance.” 4

K. A. Grirriru, Central Supply Company, Andoll
Virginia wrote a fine letter and then put a note at the bo
tom saying it was strictly confidential. His agent suppos
it would not be violating his confidence too much to sa
he is alive, has his school-boy figure and is doing well. 1

Carr. W. W.. Harcraves, U. S. N. (MCA Se
June 19, 1941, wrote: “After leaving Washington an
Lee I entered the field of banking and was engaged i
this work in my home town of West Point, Virginia u t
1908 when I entered the Medical College of Virgi |
and graduated therefrom in medicine in 1912. I interne
at the Johnson-Willis Hospital, Richmond, Virginia fc
14 months and entered the Navy Medical Corps in 191
and served therein continuously, having been promote
regularly through the various grades to my present grac
and rank, Captain, Medical Corps, U. S. Navy. 7

‘During my navy career I have served some 9 yea t
at sea on different types of ships and on foreign shot
as Public Health Officer of American Samoa and exett
tive officer of the U. S. Naval Hospital, Manila, Phill
pine Islands. I have had short duty at several stations an
hospitals including my duty at the U. S. Naval Air Ste
tion, Lakehurst, New Jersey, when the dirigible Shenat
doah was assembled, U. S. Naval Medical School, Waal

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——
np, D. C. (1931-1935) in charge of Diagnostic Clinic
Sa instructor in Cardiology, executive of the Com-

mander Train, U.S. Atlantic Fleet with additional duty
on Staff of Commander-in-Chief, U. S. Atlantic Fleet. I
yma Fellow of the American College of Physicians and

hold a certificate from the American Board of Internal

Medicine.

1908

Horace W. PHILutps, better known as “Racs,” Class
Agent for 1908-A, is our A-1 agent as far as class letters
are concerned, having received over fifty replies this year.
His home is in Hardeeville, South Carolina.

James MaTTHEW Gopwin of Bluefield, West Vir-
oinia, Was a visitor to the campus in September. He ex-
5 : :
pects to send his son to Washington and Lee next year.

RicHarp W. Hynson is in the Investment Banking
business in Washington, D. C. His firm is Folger, Nolan
and Company, American Security Building, 730 Fif-
teenth Street. His son graduated from the University

in June.

Eart K. Paxton is teaching Mathematics at Wash-
ington and Lee. He is much interested in the renewal of
enthusiasm for boat races.

ALAN Porter LEE is a Consulting Engineer, 136 Lib-
erty Street, New York. He tells of an interesting airplane
trip from Dallas, Texas, to New York. Commenting on
his flight over the Valley of Virginia, he wrote: “From
my window I could plainly see House Mountain and, I
believe, I saw the bright sunshine reflected from the
lantern and statue of George atop the Main Hall of
Washington and Lee. I was some 8000 feet up and just
Kast of Buena Vista. The Valley was beautiful with the
apple trees in full bloom, and I could not resist thinking
that there still remain in the world some strongholds of
democracy, of liberalism, of simple faith, industry, and
courage.”

GrorceE McMrnvree has his office at 509 Insur-
ance Building, Washington, D. C. He tells his class agent,
if he is looking for a paunch and jowls, he is in for a
disappointment, as he weighs less than he did while in
college, and still has his pristine hair, although he admits
toa few silver ones around the temples.

Perry W. Turner is a member of the law firm of
Martin, Turner and McWhorter, 600 North 18th Street,
Birmingham, Alabama.

FRED BaRTENSTEIN is doing engineering work with
the Army engineers, and when his letter was written in
May he was at Langley Field. His son, Fred, Jr., gradu-

ated from the Law School last year, having received his |
A.B. degree in 1939, cum laude.

Henry TEMPLE is in the lumber business in Diboll,
Texas. He says the lumber business is flying high, but
that it is about time after the lean years they have had.

ABE SOMERVILLE is District Investigating Officer of
the Fourth Corps Area CCC, McComb, Mississippi.

Henry WHITE owns the Henry White and Company,
(Sole Proprietor) Investment Bankers, Fidelity Build-
ing, Baltimore, Maryland.

M. B. O’SuULLIVAN says he still practices ‘“a little
law,” but is not working too hard and is trying to make
life as pleasant as possible. He says he wanted to get
back in the Army for another shot at it, but Uncle Sam
said “No.” They only wanted kids, and he could not
qualify. He is doing the next best thing, though, as
chairman one of the local draft boards and is sending
all of his friends’ sons into the Army to do their bit for
the government. His address is 1366 Third Avenue,
Louisville, Kentucky.

ABRAM P. STAPLES says he knows of nothing he can
add to what we have already published about him except
that due to the fact that there is no opposition to his
candidacy for the Democratic nomination for reelection
at Attorney General, he will not have the annoyance of
a summer campaign.

1909

BEIRNE STEDMAN says that his class agent’s letter
and the Alumni Magazine are the chief connecting links
he has with Washington and Lee, and that naturally he
prizes them highly, as his memories of Alma Mater are
very precious to him. He says he still enjoys dabbling
in what Dean Lile once called the ‘‘scissors and paste
pastime” of a law writer with Michie and Company, Law
Publishers, of Charlottesville, Virginia.

J. Preston Irwin is with Arthur G. McKee and
Company, Engineers and Contractors, of Cleveland,
Ohio. His company is busily engaged in building and en-
larging blast furnaces and steel plants in this country and
in Canada and Brazil.

W. EK. MoreEvanp says the largest part of his activi-
ties consist in farming, although he is a physician at Pow-
hatan, Louisiana. He has four children and three grand-
children. His father, 85, and his mother, 81, are still liv-
ing and in good health.

C. T. CHENERY, member of the Alumni Board of
Trustees, is a consulting engineer, 90 Broad Street, New

York.

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

R. R. Brown is director of the Department of Ath-
letics, New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, New
Mexico.

Amos L,. Herotp is chairman of the English Depart-
ment, Texas State College for Women, Denton, Texas.

Sorssy JEMISON is Assistant Vice-President of The
Young and Van Supply Company, Heavy Hardware
Supplies, Birmingham, Alabama.

Sam M. EncEeLuarpt is in the insurance business in
Montgomery, Alabama. His firm is Englehardt and Gar-
land, Agents, The Aetna Casualty and Surety Company.

S. N. Hosuowr is teaching mathematics at the Staun-
ton Military Academy, Staunton, Virginia.

S. G. Cor is teaching at Florida Southern College,
Lakeland, Florida.

ReuBEN Ractanp, Class Agent for 1909-L, is still
practicing law in the Consolidated Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida.

DANIEL K. Saver is a justice of the Supreme Court
of New Mexico at Santa Fe. He likes the new set-up for
the Class Agent Plan as outlined in the folder sent him,
and feels that it will be a progressively more important
factor in support of the University.

1910

Jor Bracxspurn, Class Agent for 1910-A, is a Min-
ing Engineer and Mine Manager, and lives at 1714 Mc-
Clung Street, Charleston, West Virginia.

jJoun H.. ‘Tucker, Je. is a Lieutenant: Colonel, In-
fantry (Reserve) at Camp Beauregard, Louisiana. He
says his law offices in Shreveport are functioning in
grand style in his absence.

Dr. Atsert McCown is Chief of Research and
Training Unit of the Medical Staff of the American Red
Cross in Washington, D. C.

H. A. (“Tussy”’) Derr, in the summer of 1939,
after twenty-eight years’ experience in many phases of
the paint industry, formed a company of which he is
president, called The Vanguard Paints and Finishes, Inc.,
of Marietta, Ohio. His son, William Gardner Derr, grad-
uated from Washington and Lee in 1939. His daughter,
Betsy, is a student in the College and Conservatory of
Music at Oberlin.

Raymonpb Kenny has been appointed State Director
of the Department of Public Assistance for the State of
West Virginia. This department assists some 80,000 in-

| 26 |

  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

digent people of the state and expends some $10,000,09
on various relief programs. His home is in Graftop
West Virginia. q

Hucu R. Hawtuorns is with the Pocahontas F i
Company, One Broadway, New York. He is Class Ager
for 1910-1. j

S. G. Nort says that he has always had a warm spe
in his heart for Washington and Lee, has never regrette
that he chose to go there, and that the many friendship
formed there are still fresh in his memory. If he had j
to do ever again, he would graduate from Washingto
and Lee, settle down in San Diego, California, na
blonde wife, have a brunette daughter, and be the granc 1
father of the finest baby in Hawaii. §

1914

WititiAm T. Riviere has been in extended acti
duty as a reserve officer, Hq. First Military Area, 42
Federal Building, San Antonio, Texas. He is instructa
of organized reserves. For the past eleven years he ha
been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Victori ‘i
Texas. He says; “If any of the old bunch are in
Antonio or nearby camps, I wish they'd ring me
Fannin 7141, extension 204, or come up to the four
floor of the Federal Building. :

Dana Hopcpon, through the many vicissitude 0
diplomatic missions, never fails to remember Washi 1g
ton and Lee. In Berlin he was assigned as acting Senic
Consul and also had duties to perform in connection wi it
his assignment to the Embassy there. He has had~
similar assignment in Rome. Between Berlin and Ron
he was assigned to Consulor General at Naples but onl
remained there three weeks as that office was closed :
the request of the Italian Government. On the day wh
his letter was written from Rome, July 15, he was seein |
all the consuls from Italy leave for Lisbon. a

C. W. THarp gives his address as 809 Market Senet
Chattanooga, Tennessee, but gives no personal news. 7

AN

CLrements McMutten is Lieutenant-Colonel, 4¥
Corps, Headquarters, San Antonio Air Depot, Dunca
Field, San Antonio, Texas. He is in command of th
Depot. This is the largest institution of its kind in U
United States, servicing airplanes and supplying fiel
located as far north as Colorado, west as Arizona, east |
Louisiana. He has a young son who is learning how to| b
a General at West Point. 4

Wituiam S. Enciesy, Class Agent for 1911- Lal
an attorney-at-law, Roanoke, Virginia, with offices in
Shenandoah Life Building. He has been acting as Refer ’

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

=

in Bankruptcy for the Roanoke Division of his district
since 1928, and most of his time is devoted to this work.
He is president of the Roanoke Bar Association,

i, E. GREEVER entered the Law School in 1909 and
fnished in one year. He returned in the fall of 1910,
took one or two perfunctory examinations, and his de-
oree was mailed to him in 1911. Hence he is a member of
fis class. He is practicing law in Logan, West Virginia.
His son, J. E., Jr., graduated from V.P.I. and is now a
supervisor in the TNT department of E. I. duPont Ne-
Nemours Company, Memphis, Tennessee. His daughter
graduated last Finals from the University of Kentucky.

Joun F. Brown is Judge of the Twentieth Judicial
Circuit, Randolph and Upshur Counties, Elkins, West
Virginia.

Harry HarnsBErcGER is living at 218 N. New Street,
Staunton, Virginia. He is doing some very interesting
work in hand-hammered stainless steel.

Rocer M.WInNBorN«E is still in the furniture business
in Lenoir, North Carolina. He says that along with
other businesses at this time, his company has more bust-
ness offers then it can take care of.

1912

Dan B. Owen, Class Agent for 1912-A, is distribu-
tor for the Southern States Cooperative at Crozet, Vir-
ginia. His son finished his sophomore year at Washing-
ton and Lee last June.

JAMES SOMERVILLE, Assistant Commercial Attache,
American Embassy, London, says: (Sept. 1) ‘London
has been a quiet place to live in for quite a while now, and
it is certainly not the fault of the R.A.F. bombers over
Germany. They are doing their best to stir up the hornets’
nest, but the hornets seem to have their hands pretty full
just now on their Eastern borders. If the Germans do
succeed in settling things down on that side, one rather
wonders how much of a grand ‘all-out’ attack on London
it will take to restore Mr. Schicklegruber’s mental bal-
ance.”

Wittiam McEtwee MILtier left the United States
to return to his Mission in Teheran, Iran, after a year’s
leave of absence in this country. He arrived in Teheran in
Safety, just four and a half months after leaving Phila-
delphia, having circumnavigated the globe since he started
from ‘Teheran for America in October, 1939. When his
letter was written in April, he was starting on a two
months’ tour of the towns between Teheran and Meshed.

IsaporE ForEMAN, in contributing to his class fund,
Says he finds himself bounded on the north by haphazard

business, on the south by increased expenses, on the east
by Galloping taxes and on the west by financial frustra-
tion! :

Ep Lyons is still with the Parke-Davis Company in
Detroit.

Bos Hoop has been employed for the past five years
by the federal government in the Childrens Bureau, De-
partment of Labor. He was Director of Crippled Chil-
dren’s fervices. Recently he had an illness which re-
quired him to go to Florida to recuperate. He is now con-
nected with the Florida State Board of Health, 1300
Pearl Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

DAN STRALEY ts located in Chicago, engaged in writ-
ing, chiefly poetry, which he syndicates to a large number
of daily papers throughout the country. His address is
4538 Drexel Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois.

Bogs Dow had an accident in April which kept him
out of his office for more than a month. His horse skid-
ded; he did not unload quickly enough, and both bones in
his leg were broken between the knee and ankle. His ad-
dress is Amarillo Building, 3rd and Polk Street, Amaril-
lo; Texas:

1913

Dr. HerMAN P. Davipson is an ophthalmologist,
Suite 1424, 30 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, II-
linois. Lexington is his home town, and hence he is a fre-
quent visitor to the campus. His sister is the wife of
Lewis W. Adams, Assistant Professor of Economics at
Washington and Lee.

Dr. JAMES Bruce 1s a baby specialist in Louisville,
Kentucky, with offices in the Heyburn Building. Though
he was a student at Washington and Lee for only a short
time in 1909-10, he has a close family connection with
the University, his grandfather, Dr. James J. White, hav-
ing been Professor of Greek here for many years.

BEN F. Fiery is a member of the law firm of Baker,
Hostetter and Patterson, Union Commerce Building,
Cleveland, Ohio. He is much interested in projects for
the physical development of the University.

Ep SHEFFEY is with the Selective Service System,
National Headquarters, Washington, D. C. He says that
at one time he had all of the 9,000 lottery capsules for
the national drawing, which gave him quite a thrill.

THorntToN W. ALLEN, as noted in the last issue of
the Alumni Magazine, has recently published ‘lhe Wash-
ington and Lee Song Book,” and has also just written
and published the new Washington and Lee song, “Salute
to the Generals.” Royalties from the sale of this song
are to go to the Glee Club and are already rolling in.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Howarp MACFARLANE is a member of the law firm
of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson, Maas
Office Building, Tampa, Florida. He has served as agent
for this class in the past, and therefore deeply appreciates
the efforts of his Class Agent.

Wa. C. Coutsourn, after practicing law for the past
two years in Mathews, Virginia, running a real estate and
insurance business, and being married on December 2,
1939, had to take on again the habiliments of a soldier.
He had been in the National Guard for a long time, and
on February 3, 1941, he was inducted into the service at
Fort George G. Meade, where he is serving on the Staff
of the Twenty-ninth Division as Division Judge Advo-
cate General.

1914

WaLtER WILKINS, Class Agent for 1914-A, is solici-
tor for the Federal Compress and Warehouse Company,
Pine Bluff, Arkansas. His son, Walter, Jr., graduated
from Washington and Lee in June, and his son, Howard,
expects to enter here in 1942.

Henry BarKER 1s still practicing law in Bristol,
‘Tennessee- Virginia and was recently elected President
of the Sullivan County Bar Association, comprising the
cities of Bristol, Kingsport and Blountville, Tennessee.

CLARENCE AVERY, elected a member of the University
Board of Trustees last Finals, is President of the Chat-
tanooga Glass Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

RocGER Bear, recently elected a member of the Alumni
Board of Trustees, is a frequent visitor to the campus.
His son, known as “Cub,” is a member of this year’s
freshman class. He is with the Executive Offices of The
Kroger Grocery and Baking Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.

ARTHUR MCCAIN is one of the Vice-Presidents of the
Chase National Bank, 90 John Street, New York. His
home is at 17 Rectory Lane, Scarsdale, New York.

1915

Dr. RicHarp W. FowLkEs, Suite 701 Professional
Building, Richmond, Virginia, has just finished his term
as President of the Washington and Lee Alumni In-
corporated.

CHARLIE Lite and his wife, who was Nell Carring-
ton of Lexington, were very welcome guests 1n Lexing-
ton in the spring. They have a daughter eleven years old.
Their address is 1210 South Negley Avenue, Pittsburgh,

Pennslyvania.

SAM KELLER is Refining Manager, Socony Vacuum
Oil Company Refinery, Trenton, Michigan. He sent us,

| 28 |

 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
    

for the Alumni Office desk, a very handsome stand witl
two excellent pens, which are very much appreciate D
the office force.

JAMEs E.. Bkar is Professor of New Testament j
terpretation at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond
Virginia. He and his wife were missionaries in Chin;
from 1923 to 1929 and came home at that time on fy;
lough expecting to go back; but on account of Mrs
Bear’s health this became impossible. They have Tou
children, Margaret and Eleanor, born in China, an
Jimmy, Jr., and Jean, born in this country.

Joun D. WorrHincron owns and operates a weekh
newspaper, The Aegis, Bel Air, Maryland. As a sid
issue, he operates a 250-acre dairy farm with a herd 9
eighty head of registered Guernsey cattle. They win thei
share of ribbons, and the herd is classed by experts 1
one of the eight best in Maryland. He has three son
ranging from 6 feet to 6 feet four inches. 4

NicHoLson B. ADAMS Is serving this year, by inv
tion, as visiting professor of Spanish at the University 0
Wisconsin, where more than two thousand mid-western
ers study Spanish. In September he will return to th
University of North Carolina. “One wife, one daughte
aged fourteen.” 1

Jor Honcgs, Silver City, New Mexico, has again bed
reelected District Attorney of the Sixth Judicial Distriel
Grant, Luna, Hidalgo Counties, New Mexico. ;

Jor MILLER is still ‘‘doing business at the old stanil
Coast Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Inc., Gulfport, Missa
and is Mayor of the City of Gale sore ;

JouHn D. TRIMBLE is practicing law in El Doral
Arkansas, with offices in the Trimble Building. 3

1916

F. STANLEY. PorTER is practicing law in the Fig ‘
National Bank Building, Baltimore, Maryland. He wa
the class agent this year for 1916-L. :

ViviAN PAGE was a gubernatorial candidate in th
Virginia primary last year. He also practices law and i
Receiver for a large defunct building association. His son
Walter Page, was a student at the University from 193
to 1937. In 1923 Mr. Page was elected to the General As
sembly of Virginia as a member of the House of Dele
gates and while in that branch acted as chairman of matt
important committees. In his official service he has com
in contact with many Washington and Lee men, mati
of whom have been members of the House of Delegate
and the Senate. i

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

SpessARD McNFEEr is continuing to practice law in
Huntington, West Virginia, under the firm name of
Campbell and McNeer. His oldest son has completed his
cecond year at Woodberry Forest and has entered the
freshman Class at Washington and Lee this year.

Gravy H. Forcy, 1015 N. Beech Street, Little Rock,
\rkansas, was a visitor to the campus during opening

1918

Vircit 4, ‘TRoTTeR, JR., Is ac.member of the’ Ve J.
Trotter and Sons firm of general merchandise cotton
buyers of Monticello, Arkansas. He is Class Agent for
1918.

CaptaAIN BEN F. TIttar commanded an ROTC
company at Washington and Lee in 1917-1918. He en-

week. He has two sons in
school here, one in the
Senior class and one in
the sophomore class.

1917

S iE. -@ pepe, )
DURRANCE 1S practicing
law in Orlando, Florida.
me is Class Agent for
1917-L.

LaFFE B. CHAFIN is
Prosecuting Attorney of
Mingo County, West Vir-
ginia, and lives at Wil-
liamson.

Marion SANDERS has
been working on the Engi-
neering Construction Staff
of the Hercules Powder
Company at the Radford
Ordance Works, Radford,
Virginia. His home is in
Wytheville, Virginia.

D. W. THORNBURG
has been in New Mexico
since 1920, working for
thirteen years with the
State Highway Depart-
ment. In 1933 he went

 

 

The Thousandth Contribution

The Class of 1919-A has the honor of receiving
the ONE THOUSANDTH CONTRIBUTION
to the Alumni Fund this year. This letter and con-
tribution came from L. A. McMurray, Mutoto,
Conga, par Luluabourg, Africa. The Class Agent's
letter, dated April 30, reached its destination some-
thing over two months later, was answered July 21,
and reached the Alumni Office on September 15.

After a furlough of over two years in the
United States, Louis, his wife and three small
children reached their mission station last Decem-
ber. They had a somewhat hectic time in this coun-
try due to the two older children having trypanoso-
miosis (African Sleeping Sickness). Most of this
vacation was spent at Mission Court, Richmond,
Virginia, where the children were treated by Dr.
Sam Anderson, also Washington and Lee 1919.
They returned to Africa on an Egyptian ship, a
sister to the Zam Zam, of recent fame, and there
were several incidents en route that had similar
sinister implications to the sister ship. With a short-
age of missionary personnel at the station, they
have two man-sized jobs. Louis says: “Sometimes
I feel like a policeman, sometimes like a would-be
diplomat, rarely like a teacher or a preacher, which
are supposed to be more down my alley.”

 

 

tered the Navy i 1918.
and was commissioned as
a line engineer after at-
tending an officers’ school,
in December, 1918. He is
president. of the W.. I.

Tillar Company, hardware
dealers, Fimporia,. Vir-
ginia; president of the
Emporia Federal Savings
and. Loan. Association a
director of the Citizens
National Bank of Empor-
ia, a director of the Sa
potia. Golf Club, -and4
member of the Emporia
Town Council. He is mar-
ried and has two children,
a- boy. 17, and’a aiet IZ.

Homer A. (‘Rocky’)
Hont,vatter.completme
his term of office as At-
torney General and, more
recently, his term of office
as Governor of West Vir-
ginia, has resumed _ the
practice of law at Charles-
ton, West Virginia, as a
member. of the Tittn ot
Brown, Jackson and
Kiet. obese 3s. gow: e

into the CCC as a Project Superintendent, where he
has been ever since. Since 1936 he has had charge of the
work and administration of several camps. He owns a
stock ranch ten miles out of Sante Fe on the Albuquerque
highway.

Jupck Pau, D. Barnes gives his address as 4th

Floor Court House, Miami, Florida. He is a judge of the
Circuit court,

J. L. (“Luxe”) Wituiams is still with the Bristol
Company, (instruments for recording, indicating, con-
rolling) Boston, Massachusetts, at 250 Stuart Street. He
Is Class Agent for 1917-A. |

member of the University Board of Trustees.

EDMUND CAMPBELL is still practicing law in the
Southern Building, Washington, D. C. His’ firm is
Douglas, Obear and Campbell. His twin sons, born Feb-
ruary 2, 1941, are thriving.

RK. V.. (Bos .) lenico is a ‘Lieutenant: Colonel, Air
Corps, stationed, until recently, at Base Headquarters
Borinquen Field, Puerto Rico. He wrote: “In a few
months I shall have completed twenty-four years in the
Army Air Corps. Looking backward, it does not seem to
be very long. However, as I gaze upon the airplane of
today compared with the airplane of 1917, I am forcefully

| 29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

reminded of the tremendous progress that has taken
place in military aviation in this short time. I doubt if
there were many people, until a year ago, outside the
Army Air Corps, who realized the tremendous capabilities
of the airplane.” Recently, Colonel Ignico was transferred
to Maintenance Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio.

1919

JESSIE W. BENTON is practicing law in Danville, Vir-
ginia. His son is a freshman at Washington and Lee this
session.

Dr. Reip Wuirte, University Physician and head of
the Department of Student Health, has been very much
interested in recreating interest in the boat races, and has
been largely instrumental in building a boat house and
purchasing two eight-oared shells, which are in almost
daily use on the James River below Glasgow.

1920

C. Howarp McCarn is still with the Wm. Hengerer
Company, of Buffalo, New York, in the capacity of Vice-
President. He is Class Agent for his class.

Joun C. BLocker is practicing law in St. Petersburg,
Florida, where he has been since 1925. He is County
Attorney of Pinellas County, and also oy Attorney of
Safety Harbor, Florida.

Ep G. Baivey is in the Works Department of F.H.A.
and has been with this outfit for six years. He says he is
still suffering from fairly good health and his chief in-
terests consist of the lady he works for, their home, gar-
den, yard, some dub golf-divot lifting, and a little hunt-
ing and fishing in season.

Prnxey Grissom, Class Agent for 1920-L,, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Thompson, Knight, Harris, Wright
and Weisberg, Republic Bank Building, Dallas, Texas,
with offices in the Republic Bank Building.

Harotp Roserrson is president of the Liberty Trust
Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. He has been in the banking
business for the last nineteen years. He is associated
with Bill Gibbons, B.S., 1921.

1921

Homer (“Heavy”) HENpErson, Class Agent for
1921-A, was here for Finals. He enjoyed Finals, and his
friends enjoyed seeing him. He is the Trust Officer of
the Second National Bank, Houston, Texas.

Lewis Muscrove is with the United States Guaran-
tee Company, New York. His family consists of a wife

[ 30 |

  
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

and one daughter, 14, whom he expects to send tol |
Southern Seminary at Buena Vista, Virginia in aly
two years. q

Wititiam B. Wispom was a visitor to the camp
during Finals for his twentieth reunion and had a gra
time. He is president of his own advertising agency
New Orleans, and is on many boards both financial ¢ :
civic. As a hobby he collects first editions and map
scripts. He is married and has three children, a daugh .
10, a daughter 8 and a son 4, whom he is grooming - f
a fullback in the years to come. q

Dan Brain is practicing psychiatry in New Yo
City, where he has had an office for the last ten ye 1
though he only moved into the city to live about a ye
ago. He married Sarah Logan Starr of Philadelphia, 1
they have one son, Daniel Blain, VI, aged three. Mr. Bk
was back for the twentieth reunion of his class at Fi a

Rk. C. Woop is practicing law in the Peoples N atior
Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia. He is Class Age
tor 1921-1, ‘

1922
Troy MussEtwuirte, Class Agent for 1922-A8

+4

practicing law in the Williams Building, Orlando, F lorie

B. J. Broacn is manager of the American Forei
Insurance Association, Cairo Branch Office. Baehl I
Street No. 2, Post Office Box 2022, Cairo, Egypt
writes that he received a copy of the Alumni Magasin
for February 1941, and wished to express his approy
of the courses now given in training for Foreign Servic
He says: “The college students of today may be expecte
to be the leading men of the country in the future,
gardless of what profession is followed, and I sincere
hope that the training for Foreign Service courses at’
University will be made obligatory for all students.” —

James A. Cranrorp is Vice-President of the Atlant
National Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida. —

RAYMOND SMITH has escaped from Wall Street a 7
is now with the Treasurer’s Department of the vi
Chemical Company, 122 E. 42nd Street, New York. |

Jimmie Marrox, senior athlete of the well- a
family, after being an ace athlete at Washington and Le
played professional baseball for three years, one Wi
Rochester, New York, and one with the Pittsburg Pirate €
He is now owner and operator of The J. P. Mattox [
surance Agency. He is also president of the City Mot
Company, Ford dealers in Salisbury, N. C. and vicinit
He is married and has no children. He owns and flies F
own airplane. 7

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

Harry Ropert, JRr., sports writer for The Evening
Bulletin, Philadelphia, lives at 27 Ardmore Avenue,
Lansdowne, Pennsylvania.

Jor L. SILVERSTEIN is a member of the law firm of
Silverstein, Davis and Rich, Charleston National Bank
Building, Charleston, West Virginia. He is Class Agent

for 1922.

GrorcE C. Mason, Jr., is President of Gem-Dandy,
Incorporated, manutacturers ot Gem-Dandy. garters,
etc., Madison, North Carolina. Practically all of the of-
fcials of this successful company are Washington and

Lee alumni.

THomAs JEAN ELtis withdrew temporarily from
private practice in 1939 and served for about eighteen
months as assistant to the State Attorney General. He
established law offices in the Centennial Building, Tal-
lahassee, Florida, in 1940, and is still in pursuit of ‘‘the
gladsome light of jurisprudence” and engaging, ‘‘temp-
erately” in farming.

Davip H. Matson, after-a four months vacation in

Bihe States,’ returned to Argentina Jast September,
where he has lived for over ten years. His business car-
ries him all over the Provinces and most of the Ter-
ritories with occasionial trips to Chile, Uruguay and
Brazil. He is operating manager of a large utility com-
pany engaged in the ‘“‘explotacion”’ of electric generating
stations and distribution systems throughout South
America. He is married and has one daughter.

1923

DOB Carr is president of the R..H. Carr Lumber
Company of Jasper, Alabama. He has a son who entered
the freshman class here this fall, a daughter, twelve, and
another son, eight, who are prospective Sweet Briar and
Washington and Lee students, respectively. He did not
take up the practice of law after graduating and passing
his state Bar examination,’ but got sidetracked into the
lumber business. Ra S

1924

J. Metvrn Lovetace is Commonwealth’s Attorney
for the City of Suffolk, Virginia. He is Class Agent for
924-1 ,.

H. 1. SHury is Vice-President and General Manager

of the Morganton Furniture Company, Morganton,
North Carolina. He is also First Vice-President of the
Southern F urniture Manufacturers Association, and

yice-President of the Huffman Full Fashioned Hosiery
Mills.

1925

By the Class Agent
Bruce F. GAnNNAway is the Minister of the Hend-
ricks Memorial Methodist Church, Jacksonville, Florida.
He is Class Agent of the Class of 1925-A, and the fol-
lowing are excerpts from his letters which he had mimeo-
graphed and sent to his classmates.

CHARLES HEILIG is with the Taylor Mattress Com-
pany, Salisbury, North Carolina. He is also treasurer of
the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of North Carolina.
Charles was so interested in my problem of building a
church that he didn’t tell me anything about himself.
We'll just assume that no news is good news. Thank
you, Charles.

Britt Woo.tFork, located in Owensboro, Kentucky,
is an eye, ear, nose, and throat specialist. He and Mrs.
Woolfolk have two children: Margaret, aged 4; and
William, Jr., aged 2.

Kern Goopg, living in Cleveland, is evidently a rail-
road man, for his stationery says, ‘The Chesapeake and
Ohio Railway Company, The New York, Chicago and
St. Louis Railroad Company, Pere Marquette Railway
Company.” Ken is going to visit Washington and Lee
this summer. He and Mrs. Goode are blessed with a little
girl, Gerrie Lee, aged 2% years.

Bitt KRENIENBAUM and his wife were about to come
down to Florida on a trip from their home in Virginia,
when the Defense orders poured in so heavily they had
to put off the trip. Sorry you couldn’t make it, Bill, but
glad you got the business. Bill is the daddy of a 10 years
old son and an 8 year old daughter, so his happiness
should be just about complete.

LuTHER L. CopLey is an Attorney and Counsellor at
Law, Security Building, Miami, Florida. He reports an
enthusiastic annual dinner of the local alumni chapter
on April. 7,

Joun Morrison, elected President of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, at Finals last year, is
a member of the law firm of Brown, Jackson and Knight,
Kanawha Valley Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

1926

CLARENCE W. (“Fats”) Méapows is Attorney Gen-
eral of the State of West Virginia, having been re-elected
for another four-year term beginning January 1, 1941.

Rurus A. FuLton and his wife were visitors to the
campus during the summer. They were on their way from

| St |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dallas, Texas, transferring from the Armstrong Cork
Company there, to the Lancaster, Pennsylvania, works.

Tom Forty has been in Indianapolis for the past four
years. He is now serving in the capacity of District Rep-
resentative with Commercial Credit Corporation. He has
a wife, a daughter seven years old, and a son four. He 1s

Class Agent for 1926-A.

1927

JosEpH L. Lanter is Class Agent for the Oak
Class of 1927. He is in the cotton milling business in
West Point, Georgia.

GrEorcE W. SUMMERSON is manager of the Hotel
General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. He is mar-
ried and has two daughters, one six and one three. He 1s
a member of the Kiwanis Club of Bristol, Director of the
Chamber of Commerce, past president of the Virginia-
North Carolina Hotel Association, Vice-President of the
Virginia Division of the Southern Hotel Association, and
on the Board of Directors of the Virginia Hotel Associa-
tion.

GrorGE E\Liis is Trust Officer of the First National
Exchange Bank of Roanoke, Virginia. He and Ep Outp,
1929 and CourtNEy Kine, 1921, were among the alumni
from Roanoke attending Finals.

J. ARTHUR SMITH is District Manager. of the see
tual Life Insurance Company of New York, 901 Guar-
anty Bank Building, Alexandria, Louisiana. He says that
Alexandria is the center of the location of four large
Army camps: Camp Beauregard, Camp Claiborne, Camp
Livingston, and Camp Polk; and that he would be glad
to be of any service to any former students of Washing-
ton and Lee and their friends, who might be in the service
at any of these camps.

Tom JEFFERSON has followed in the footsteps of all
of his family and gone into the tobacco business as a
buyer and packer of cigar leaf tobacco, his main interest
being in tobacco grown in Wisconsin, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, and Ohio, which are cigar leaf states. He
was in business with his father for a few years, but for
the past ten years has been connected, with the W. H.
Winstead Tobacco Company, of 15 West Redwood
Street, Baltimore, Maryland. He has charge of buying in
all the cigar leaf states.

GrEorGE D. VARNEY is Speaker of the House of

Representatives, Augusta, Georgia. He is Class Agent
for the Law Class of, 1927.

1928
J. W. Atprrson, Jr., Class Agent for 1928-A, is

[ 32 |]

    
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
  

president of Fussell, Graham, Alderson Company, cg

eral Merchandise-Cotton Buyers, Forrest City, Arkans 4

Witiiam C. Norman is Assistant Manager of ; tl
Crossett Lumber Company, Crossett, Arkansas. He
married and has two children. He paid his first visit
Lexington since graduation last winter.

Davip H. Wick is Rabbi at Temple Israel, Omah
Nebraska. He is married and has a son and a daughte
Rabbi Wice has been President of the Youth Guidan
Council, I'amily Welfare Association, Council of Scam
Agencies in Omaha, and on the Board of Governors 4
the Community Chest. He has spent his summers eit i
in further graduate study or travel, and expected to 7
beth this past summer. 4

TB. BRYAN’, JRs iscpracticing ‘law in Orangebur
South Carolina. He is Class Agent for 1928-L,. :

OLDHAM CLARKE is a member of the law firm
Allen, Dinning and Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Buik
ing, Louisville, Kentucky. He married Miss Louis
Hoge in 1929, and they have a son, Ernest Hoge, who
ten years old, and a daughter Louisa French, who is for Ol
years old. Oldham is president of the local Alumni Clu

1929

Ropert W. PHarr went on duty with the Gener:
Staff, Headquarters Second Army Corps, Memphi:
Tennessee, March 23. His law office is carrying on in 1
absence in the name of Walsh, Percy and Pharr, frot
which he is on leave of absence “‘for the duration.”

Juius G. Berry is manager of the Tupelo Insurant
Agency, Tupelo, He is Class Agegm f
1929-A.

Norris SMITH says the past year has been quite
eventful one for him. ‘The arrival of Henry Louis Smitl
II, last December 27, tops the list, and a down- -paymer
on a new house comes second. I passed my examinatior
for certification by the American Board of Interne :
Medicine, was appointed Captain in the Medical Cory p
(Base Hospital No. 65 at Duke), and was elected a Dei :
con in the First Presbyterian Church here. Practice com
tinues on the up grade.” He is practicing medicine 1
Greensboro, North Carolina. 4

Mississippi.

Roper? B. LE&x is still located with the Bankers re ru
Company with which he became associated in the sum
of 1929, accounting and budgetary control being MM
particular field. Under the pressure of national emergene
control, he is serving as a lieutenant in the New Yor
Guard, although for ten years he was in the horse cavalr}
He is married and has a son, Dick, three years old. 7

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

——

WacTER N. PHarr, Captain, American, LaGuardia
Airport, New York, flies the sleeper planes for American
Airlines from New York to Memphis on southern trans-
-ontinental. He says he salutes good old Washington and
Lee as he passes directly over Lexington each trip.

IrwIN T. SANDERS, who has been in educational work
‘n the Balkans, has returned to this country and accepted
q position in the Department of Sociology in the Univer-
sity of Kentucky at Lexington, Kentucky. He reports the
birth of a daughter, Gerda Elisabeth, who is now a year
old. He says: ““We are very glad that our teaching days
in the Balkans are a thing of the past, but even the news
reports secm to come from very close home, for we had
visited so many places now prominent on war maps. It’s
almost as though the world we once knew over there had
ceased to exist. We watch history which formerly took
hundreds of years unfolding itself in a few weeks—
whole nations losing their very identity. But there is hope
in taking the long view and being confident in the ulti-
mate triumph of decency providing we believe in it
enough to pay the price for it.”

CHARLES L. CLAUNCH is a member of the law firm
of Anderson, Claunch and Shumacker, Chattanooga
Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is Class
Agent for 1929-L,.

Bos Powers is Assistant City Attorney of the city of

Portsmouth, Virginia.
1930

Jim Hess says that we have had the same note about
him in the Alumni Magazine for the past four years the
same being “that he is still employed in the Manufactur-
ing office of the Niagara Plant of the Carbide and Carbon
Chemical Corporation.” However, he gives us nothing
new to add except that he is married and has a little
daughter, and that he returned to his native state of
West Virginia for his vacation, after a long hard winter
on the Canadian border.

PALMER Brown, III, is president of the L. P. Brown
Company, Incorporated, Bagging and ies, 1201 Ex-
change Building, Memphis, Tennessee. He has been mar-
ried about four years and has a little daughter two years
old whose superiority from every point of view he admits
without argument.

Epwarp Graves became a member of the law firm of
Edwards, Whitehead, Baldwin and Graves, Lynchburg,
Virginia, in June 1940. However, he thinks he hears the
Army knocking at his door.

ALBERT STEVES, III, is managing the family lumber
Concern of Ed Steves and sons in San Antonio, Texas. This

company is celebrating its seventy-fifth birthday this year,
being the oldest retail lumber company in the State of
‘Texas.

Joun P. Lyncu is still with the McGuire Clinic, St.
Lukes Hospital, Richmond, Virginia. He holds a Cap-
tain’s commission in the Medical Reserve, General Hos-
pital 45, and when he wrote last May, he expected to be
calied at any time.

SAM Rayper is Cashier of the Rockbridge National
Bank, Lexington, Virginia. He is also Treasurer of the
Student Body Fund of Washington and Lee, and is active
in everything pertaining to the University.

1931

Bren L. Lewis gave up his job last October, enlisted
in the Ohio National Guard, and was inducted into the
Army on October 15, 1940. Five days later his outfit was
shipped off to Camp Shelby, Mississippi, where they have
been since that time. He is in the Finance Office of the
37th Division, in charge of enlisted men’s payrolls. His
permanent address is still 1714 Senate Street, Columbia,
South Carolina.

Ben M. Ayars, Class Agent for 1931-A, is with the
Farm Credit Administration, Columbia, South Carolina.

ALBERT G. PEERY is practicing law in Tazewell, Vir-
ginia. He married Agnes Penick Junkin, of Sutsien,
China, in 1940. His wife’s great-grandfather, George
Junkin, was President of Washington College just before
the outbreak of the Civil War.

Duncan McConne tv has, since graduation, spent
about a year each in New York, California, Minnesota,
Illinois, and Texas. When he wrote in May, he was an-
ticipating another transcontinental move to Colorado, alll
this in spite of the fact that he is not a traveling salesman,
but a geologist.

GILMORE NUNN is president of the Southern Net-
work, Incorporated, Radio Building, Lexington, Ken-
tucky. He reports the birth of a third daughter born on
October 5, 1940, registered in the book under the name of
Josephine Lindsay Nunn, and succinctly remarks “Boy,
I got women!”

Jor MacEE wrote in July from his boss’s camp, Camp
Intermission, Saranac Lake, N. Y., where he was spend-
ing his vacation. After a checkered career, the checks in-
cluding Cohen, Corcoran, Ickes and a few other ex-
bosses, he is settled as Assistant to William Morris, and
also handling the play department of the Agency.

[ 33 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

19a

Ropert M. Otmsteap, of Dallas Texas, is with the
firm of Olmstead-Kirk Company. He has been president-
of the company since his father’s death in March.

EvERETT NeEtson (‘‘Guss’”) Cross is a Recreation
Director, Washington, D. C. He reports a swell western
trip with his wife, and that things are booming in Wash-
ington.

Ropert L. McBrips of Hillsboro, North Carolina, is
practicing law with the firm of McBride and McBride.

C. P. Lex will have a new novel, The Way Home, off
the McMillan Press in 1942. He spent the summer writ-
ing in Arkansas and Saratoga Springs, New York.

JAMES S. PoLvak is still in the motion picture busi-
ness at the RKO Radio Studies. He is polishing off a
novel which he has been writing for the past five years.
He married Miss Leigh Ramsey of Westport, Connecti-
cut. His address is RKO Studios 780 N. Gower Street,
Hollywood, California.

D. J. SavacE, Class Agent for 1932-L, is judge of the
intermediate court of Kanawha County, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1933

LutTHER VioLEt, Class Agent for 1933-A, is still
with Dun and Bradstreet, Incorporated, but was trans-
ferred from Cleveland to Lexington, Kentucky, last
Spring. His address is 514 Citizens Bank and Trust
Company Building, Lexington, Kentucky.

Topp DEVANN was called to active duty as a Medical
Reserve Officer from private practice in Philadelphia,
where he was specializing in surgery, in August 1940. He
was transferred from Walter Reid Hospital in Washing-
ton to the 1,000 bed. Tilton Hospital at Fort: Dix on
March 20, as a surgeon. He hoped to be promoted to Cap-
tain this past summer.

CLraupDE LAVARRE is still living in Santiago de Cuba
(when not moving about the rest of the island on busi-
ness) and enjoying it. Married, no children, two dogs.
He says: “If any Washington and Lee men should hap-
pen by this way (as now many people from the states do,
what with Manganese Mining and the U. S. Naval Sta-
tion at Guatanamo Bay) we would be delighted if they’d
look us up.” In a later letter he states that he hopes to
have a vacation “in the States” this fall and will certainly
visit Washington and Lee, most probably at Homecoming.

W. J. (“Biv”) Brooks, JR., is connected with the
sales promotional and advertising work for the Chevrolet

[ 34 |

   
    
 
 
   
    
 
     
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

Company in the Memphis zone. He was married th
past year to the former Miss Sammie L,. Garner q
Memphis.. q

EBEN JACKSON is employed by Wire Products, lf
corporated, Lynn, Massachusetts. He is Senior Warde
of the Calvary Episcopal Church, Danvers, Massach
etts, where he has his residence. He says he is strony
healthy and wise—single, = a draft number and iS i
Class 1, but “rapidly aging.” a

HrENry ARNOLD is president of the Cullen Tribun
Cullman, Alabama. He was recently elected vice-presider
of the Cullman Rotary Club and also appointed Seer
tary-Director of the United Service Organization ;
Cullman County, For several years he has been Superin
tendant of the Sunday School at St. Paul's Luthera
Church and has served for the past two years as Secre ¢
tary of the Rotary Club. 7

CarL VICKERS is Prosecuting Attorney of Fayett
County, West Virginia. He has a younger brother in th
freshman class this year. |

Witiiam F. Stone, Class Agent for 1933-19
back on the campus at Finals. He is practicing law i
Martinsville, Virginia. He is Vice-President of The O
Belt Alumni Association.

Caverr Rosert was back on the campus in June. 1
says: ‘Either the years have magnified the beauty of f
place to me or the campus actually is the most beaut
spot in the world. I feel somewhat that it must be th
latter case. More adequate buildings and facilities hav
been added without a sacrifice to the rich traditions am
heritage of the place.” Cavett was recently elected pr
dent of the Arizona Edison Company, Inc., of Dou
Arizona. He is married and has a little girl three year
old and a boy a year and a half old.

1934

FRED O. FUNKHOUSER is Class Agent for 1934-4 \
He is Secretary-Manager of the Harrisonburg Loan an
Thrift Corporation of Harrisonburg, Virginia. He ha
been married for about five years. q

Norwoop Banp is Minister of the Westside Pres y
terian Church, Germantown, Philadelphia. - 4

Ricuarp W. Grarron is representing the New Yor :
Life Insurance Company in Trenton, New Jersey. 1
lived in Lawrenceville, New Jersey, at the time his letté
was written in April, but he stated that he had just sol
his house there and expected to begin construction off
new one within a short time, nearer to his work. 4

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

LAYNE H. Forp, Class Agent for 1934-L, is still dis
rrict manager of the West Virginia State Employment
Service at Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1935

Frep Stronc has been with the Vick Chemical Com-
pany in New York, but was transferred to Greensboro,
North Carolina, last spring, expecting to be there about
six months and then go to

Pensacola, Florida, where he received the coveted Gold
Wings ‘of the Navy, together with a commission as En-
sign in the U. S$. Navy Reserve. He has been ordered to
active duty with V. P. Squadron 4, Norfolk, Virginia.

CHARLIE SWEET, Class Agent for 1936-A, lives at
10 Vine Street, Bronxville, New York. He passed his
New York Bar examination and has accepted a position

with Hines, Rearick, Dorr

 

Cincinnati. We are keep-
ing his address in care of
Vick Chemical. Company,
New York.

Se P. Cige ) Gas
man is still with the Ar-
cade Manufacturing Com-

pany, [*reeport, I[linois.
Me is Class Agent for
1935-A.

could be forwarded.

 

GILBERT McKown is

Please Note

In many of the letters written by the men in the
younger classes in the spring to Class Agents, the
statement was made that they expected to be in the
service within a few months. We are keeping all
of these men at their old addresses, but it would
be greatly appreciated by the Alumni O fice if they
would give us a permanent address from which mail

ann * Flaminord “of “Gt
Broadway, New York.

Tom ALPHIN is doing
research in neurology and
endocrinology at the In-
stitute of Neurology,
Northwestern University
Medical School, 303 East
Chicago Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.

 

COLIN BROWNELL 45

 

practicing law in Martins-

burg, West Virginia, with offices in the Kilmer Building.
He was married last April to Miss Gertrude Marshall
Reynolds of Clarke County, Virginia.

CLAIBORNE DarbEN, after leaving Washington and
Lee at mid-term, 1935, became associated with the O.
Henry Hotel of Greensboro, North Carolina. He left the
hotel as assistant manager in the early fall of 1936 to be-
come associated with Sands and Company. He was mar-
ried in the late fall of 1937 while working in South Caro-
lina and Georgia, but moved back to Greensboro in
August, 1939. Mr. and Mrs. Darden have a baby girl,
Dorothy Jane, born April 16, 1941.

Tom C. Smrtn, Class Agent for 1935-L, P.O. Box
1693, Tulsa, Oklahoma, says the most important thing
that has happened in his life was the birth of a son cn
April 28.

Rupotpu BAUMGARDNER, JR., is now on duty in the
Judge Advocate General’s Office in Washington, D. C.
He held a reserve commission as Captain in this branch
of the service. He is married and has a three-year-old
daughter.

Dave MacDonatp has been carrying on the law of-
fices of his father and uncle, both of whom died in No-
vember, 1939, and has had his hands full. He was married
in June, 1940. He lives in Durant, Oklahoma.

1936

Isaac G. SuiveLy, of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania,
has recently completed his advanced flight training at

practicing law in Mechan-
icsville, New York, with offices in the Mead Building.

1937

O. H. PeckHam is a salesman for a rubber distribu-
tion company, in St. Louis. His address is 949 Greeley,
Webster Groves, St. Louis, Missouri.

A. EuGENE Crayton lives at 8605
Woodhaven, New York.

Howe et Ropserts, Jr., has been working for the past
two years in the California and Hawaiian Sugar Refin-
ing Corporation, Ltd., 82 Wall Street, New York City.
His address is 102 Fourth Street, Garden City, New
Yotk:

ERNEST C. BARRETT, JR., has been in the advertising
department of two Richmond papers since graduation.
He was married to Barbara Grundy of Richmond on
May 18, 1940. He and his wife expect to spend the month
of August in Hawat. His Richmond address is 203 North
Plum Street.

98th Street,

F’. G. WILson is employed in the General Fngineer-
ing Department of the Mead Corporation, paper manu-
facturers, for whom he has worked since graduation. He
recently applied for an appointment as a non-flying cadet
in the air corps. His address is 176 South Mulberry
Street, Chillicothe, Ohio.

CHARLES J. WALKER is practicing law in Lancaster,
Kentucky, with his father. He was elected City Attorney
of the City of Lancaster on March 3, 1939.

[ 35 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ALFRED H. WIsHNEW was married in September,
1940. He is practicing law in Brooklyn, with offices at 66
Court Street.

Writam H. Armenrrovr is principal of the Na-
tural Bridge School, Natural Bridge, Virginia. When
we heard from him, he expected to be drafted within a
short time.

CHARLIE McNutty was married recently to a Roan-
oke girl and is working for WDBJ, writing continuity
and selling radio time. His address is The Ponce de Leon
Hotel, Roanoke, Virginia.

Britt Wivsur has been teaching freshman history
(modern civ.) and one course for juniors and seniors in
the Social Science Department of Muhlenberg College,
Allentown, Pennsylvania. He is there this session also if
he didn’t get caught in the draft.

ANDREW H. (“Anpy’) BAveEr is selling flour for
Bauer Flour Mills Company, covering the central states
from Michigan to Georgia. His home address is 638 Au-
dubon, Clayton, St. Louis, Missouri.

WattTer G. (“TEx”) LEHR is with the Richard Gill
Company of San Antonio, Texas, in various capacities.
He is now vice-president of the company which is doing
a state-wide business with branches in Dallas, Houston,
Austin, and Corpus Christi. He expected to be in the
service within a short time.

NorMAN ILER is now stationed at Ft. Thomas, Ken-
tucky.

Ropert R. RapcrirF is doing chemical development
work with the Essex Rubber Company, at Trenton, New
Jersey.

1938

WituiAM C. Baker, JrR., and his bride paid us a visit
early in September. He is working in Chicago, and his
residence address is 1722 Ridge Avenue, Evanston, III-
Inois,

Bren L. ANDERSON was with Pan American Airways
in New York for two years after leaving school and is
now in the army as a Second Lieutenant in the 368th In-
fantry “out here in the dust and cactus of the Apache
country,’ Fort Hauchuca, Arizona.

Wm. Saxsy Travet has been appointed a special
agent in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His home
address is 183 Buckingham Street, Waterbury, Connecti-
cut.

Murat Wi tis and his bride were visitors to the
campus the latter part of the summer. Their home ad-

| 56 |

  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
  
  
   

dress is Alson Court Apartments, Laurel Avenue, Cha
lotte, North Carolina. |

Tom Brrry is a special agent with the Federal] Bid
of Investigation. His address is Hotel Teris, 1252 We
Street., Los Angeles, California.

JoHN Macy is practicing law in the Security Tr
Company Building, Lexington, Kentucky.

Cy ANDERSON is with the Antitrust Division ing
Department of Justice, Washington, D. C. He is Marrie
and reports the birth of a daughter on April 29, whos
name is Vicki Lynn. His address is 1650 Harvard Stree
N.W., Washington, D. C.

1939

Ropert S. Hoyr was Assistant Manager of
Hampden Branch of The Equitable Trust Company.
Baltimore, Maryland, when Uncle Sam began to call |
was one of the first to be called from Baltimore and
now in Company B of the Sixth Medical Training B
talion at Camp Lee, Virginia. He was married to

Isabel Holmes Williamson, formerly of Lexington
the 17th of May.

Don Houcutron was married, August 21, 194
Miss Edythe Thomson. He was doing graduate w
the University of Michigan and expected to get his
ter’s degree in June and stay on at Ann Arbor for tue
study during the summer and next session.

Wittiam T. DELAPLAINE, II, is an instru
Squadron 12, Lee Field, United States Air Sta
Jacksonville, Florida. His title is Ensign, U.S.N.R.

M. J. (“Jack”) Swan, Jr., is still in the sameum
ness, making dog identification tags—K-9 Tag co
2240 Wesley Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

JoHN MacKEnzig is a member of the law firm
Bain and MacKenzie, 406 New Kirn Building, Po
mouth, Virginia. He is Class Agent for 1939-L.

BILL Swit was inducted into the service last Fe
ary and says it isn’t such a bad life now that he has
covered from his blistered heels and gotten his sec
wind. He had been on K.P. and reports that he had w
ed 644 pieces of silver and 1482 pieces of china by n
He lost count after that. His home address, from w
mail will be forwarded, is 717 Pujo Street, Lake Cha
Louisiana.

1940

Jor BILLINGSLEY, Jr., of King George Court Hout
Virginia, left October 10th for Tokyo, Japan, where !
will be attached to the American Embassy.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

—

JouN Newton HarMan, 11, Class Agent for 1940-L,
e practicing law in the offices of Strother, Herndon and
Berry: Welch, West Virginia.

Harry Rk. STEPHENSON, JR., has been appointed a
special agent in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His
» . ° .
home address is Paris Mountain, Greenville, South Caro-

lina.
Hat Branton WATTERSON was in the graduating
class of the University of Tennessee in June.

1941

CHarLes G. Hooks, Jr., is in the engineering school
of the University of Texas. He reports that he has made
the honor roll in his last semester. His address is 2005
Bellmeade, Houston, Texas.

BENJAMIN A. GILLocK was Assistant Leader in the
Peaks of Otter CCC Camp at Bedford, Virginia, last
May. He was also editor of the camp paper, The South-
ern Star.

Wittiam A. Boces is connected with the payroll de-
partment of the Hercules Powder Company, Brunswick,
Georgia. He expected to attend the Marine Corps Camp
at Quantico this summer.

 

Weddings

As the wedding announcements rolled in this summer,
we had almost begun to think we could make this a
matrimonial issue, filled with marriages and nothing
else. As it is, you can see that the following mentions
hll a formidable space; and between the lines we hope
the happy couples will read the sincere congratulations
not only of this office but of their fellow alumni every-
where.

Our information, which we hope is not incomplete,
lists the following weddings since our last issue:

1927

Kucuirn Datcno Reeves to Mrs. Louise Herreshoff
Raton on May 27th at Saint John’s, Barrington, Rhode
Island. The bride and groom will be at home at 93 Be-
hevolent Street, Providence, Rhode Island.

1934

Rosert L. Burrincton to Miss Ruby Lee Todd on
July 20 in the First Baptist Church of Afton, Oklahoma.
Mr, Buffington gives as his present mailing address, until
he is permanently settled, U. S. Engineer Office, Wright
Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1935
Winston WitiiAm Brown to Miss Ann Land
Scovell on August 30th at the First Presbyterian Church
of Deland, Florida. The bride’s father, Mr. Tiley Hamp-
ton Scovell is a member of the class of 1919.

WittiamM Rocers SpPHAR, JR., to Miss Lucy Wood-
ford Kenney on July 23rd at the First Presbyterian
Church of Paris, Kentucky.

1936
RopeErt BurNE?rt to Miss Frances Botts in Greens-
boro, North Carolina, on October 11, 1941. Their ad-
dress is 2234 Dundee Road, Louisville, Kentucky.

FLETCHER FitzGERALD Maynarp to Miss Anne
Meriwether Dashiell on September 30th at St. John’s
Methodist Church, Memphis, Tennessee.

FRANK Leip Price to Miss Josephine Delahunt Sul-
livan on September 22nd at the Petworth Methodist
Church, Washington, D. C.

1938
AcHILLE Murat WILLIs, JR., to Miss Courtenay
Jones on August 22nd at St. Peters Episcopal Church,
Charlotte, North Carolina.

Hrram Watt to Kathleen Lavon Smith on July 4th
at Pearisburg, Virginia. The bride and groom will be at
home at the Colonial Apartments, Salem, Virginia.

1939
FERDINAND Prrer Maupar (Ferdinand Roth) to
Miss Louise Maresca on June 29th at Our Lady of Libera
Church, West New York, New Jersey.
SAMUEL BirNniE HaArpEr, Jr., to Miss Louise Mar-
shall on September 8th at Colonia Obispado Six five-one,
Monterrey, Mexico.

1940

Homer Danitét JoNnEs, Jr., to Miss Helen Julia Corn-
well on September 6th at the First Presbyterian Church
of Saint Louis, Missouri. Mr. Jones is at present em-
ployed in the Sales Department of the Koppers Coal
Company.

LIEUTENANT Lupton Avery, U. S. Army, to Miss
Marion Dailey on July 19th at the First Presbyterian
Church of Paris, Kentucky.

1941
Ceci, Woop Taytor to Lida Belle Goyer, on Septem-
6th at Grace-St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, Memphis,
‘Tennessee.
GeEorGE RicHarp Day to Miss Evelyn Lee Win-
chester on July 26th at Grace-St. Luke’s Church, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

[ 37 |


