tars

umni Magazine

_ Washington and Lee University

 

OCTOBER, 1943

li ’ fi
\ ay Mj
i H
. "
j

N. MANCHESTER, INDIANA

 

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

 

 

Standing of Alumni Class Fund

As of November 10, 1943

Class Contributors Amt. * Class Agent
1867-91...... Eeisiteatiis Ei ksiasesseligPlRecnssaesseed Alumni Office
om? | See Aico PN tee Wael cs eos eneet Dr. E. L. Green
¥O21 803 - ck. 1Ge Stas _ |) Rae eer B. A. Judd
WORT ROS 5.05.3 cst aks as Jus Adina sbineisendasnge Alumni Office
BOSS 5 side, eT aicinie’ ET ens ivasaretonag Alumni Office
IP TEIO veces OS sibendi BRMMPE hace hk scdegsiavenscans J. W. Lattomus
OPT EST... cc RU) cacxchinas IE os sia as ohcocdvaveesube Alumni Office
STOR: Sawa idcake PRAM tiacasanisibescsvedess Edward A. O’Neal
199 3 Bok ee eS SEIS Re ons nt ra, Alumni Office
*FS7T900 Ci yg ae A MSS ae Samuel Ruffin Horn
*H190T- sis Wisi as Dats 56.5 ctkigsccacbaacs sevens Alumni Office
**1902 - nc biG cdan ct PN  iettiinic ap Niche tine W. Dewey Cooke
¥¥1 0088 ou: Bi etettodkends MI nde necks Rev. Cary R. Blain
O%1 904 a Wi a BERIT bin 8 0.2. .ucspiitehetin bess indexdenres J. B. Akers
1908 >... iiepainsinn eed Alumni Office
TG 5s ccc ab dance peal Maa gee eich via deen ttbe'ss doi eOsanes Henry C. Tillman
OS 1OO7 cscs Gis bssc RE ickhaibiisais slaps bath oceneiee Ek. Clyde Hoge
ERI OOB= A ..5 GF cov covsecte Merits sti caus eyeas cckeet Horace W. Phillips
WOO fis Da ee MF oc alg teecdneceencdsccehendah Hiram M. Dow
TI O094Ais. 5.008 Anséecathieni NE I ie foarte Stutetnhasesi John W. Claudy
IE fh scccak Ogapanansonas PNT stax satids.t-scekssteven; Guyte P. McCord
RD 520 dads hd en iesaakiakinacodcatesccissonhcgenedens Cc. W. Streit
***1910-L....... Faechadan le hans crenesevs Orange W. Richardson
*#*1911-A......< RU h, i och Th ca oclcocinsdobecasagl F. P. Guthrie
PPE Bhai cisud Uenaksivinnce PR cb kivsiicen. desdieeetsots Omer T. Taylor
PP ics Dinitesess PAP c vcnks cack asescatsveasccukacsannine Dan Owen
***1912-T....... Fah aed MUM acta”, .2éseyatcodountctioien Russell B. Wine
WRITS AiR aecec se tectee, SOO pathnsevccuactccespseccannsoeasibaee C. C. Moore
PPFT91 3-1... keretniens TP MIO.S, cninss ddigncthodas oes Henry B. Goodloe
POR IT AA. 5, 20s, cevcciaee es Ges incronnstbestathcitbeatest Henry N. Barker
1914-L....... DAE trl <i diet icossvcniag R. Lee Buehring
TIT A521. 29: .cccacbonee BG Cais ness. caveccceecbeanas Charles R. Beall
81 91 ST sic. Fast digsd:\. OM ENNEE HiddeAL skies sdcdgs sana J. D. Trimble
PHB I1O1G6-A nice Loeccicsdecees 142 SO cS Saeki Harrison P. Magruder
90191 6-1... 2 dec cccssceces Be PMs Soest ant. co apespocgues Karl B. Rose
WEE Re Piivne ata Dicker sitditege PE CAIENs «tina SSoeiahabtedgtertatuens ods James A. Lee
**1917-L...... Bie sccic is GSO APs css Sindace ks Lafayette B. Chafin
TOOTS IS. is Zbicueagsteas BE ios kink. 00s ianedaa.cesbdace Homer A. Holt
WOETILS cane 1D ist ccta LE ici ck cevnti- staat Leonard T. Brown
*#1920-A.......26....ccc0e0e. RE Re ae ve. Thomas McA. Stubbs
1920-L....... Seac.3; act tchaihihastctas, oSnbecd L. Berkeley Cox
LOZ IA i, ce iasedecaeesen BR Sahin westdnts vin ooo Sate John L,. Patterson

 

*More contributors than total for 1942.
**More money than total for 1942.
***\More contributors and more money.

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
PIE Fe Ee osccck Gicsoscveyas TG A ciniccticegicsivesciuacaetaaa R. C. Wood
RN Paik tude d wscanvdesins 1B/ SOK kino Troy C. Musselwhite
wg) 7 28 Fe Piccieigaskies COO) ic ssdtccendem ceil William E. Neblett
PT LBP csied Se csesesncens O6. OU ica eee D. Raymond Snively
**#*1923-L...... cs shite SO. acustacen Emmett W. Poindexter
DA Picp te Dornochsaseee ISRO akin W. Goodridge Sale
***1924-L....... Br iactenas FOLIO vias peéucsnseedesesheall John W. Greene
PIN os BSaeSicsvsupee  COd OM Darsansiedepivnsiioessale Bruce F. Gannaway
BEES a occset LU i absepesise- PP ciisiapta ee dtaeasens William A. McRitchie
Ech yths 8 Obvsanccn0se- BGS QO csseiccthinsoccnkteiccu Thomas P. Foley
1926-L....... Oise, cass Beh i eee sea ae Earl L. Valentine
PEI to 1D i2-cusctes I cae ve cates ct Jim Cox Wilbourn
rsa atte wag 6 ete eS George D. Varney
*#*1928-A......22.....ccc000 EL? a RE IR ties ee F. M. P. Pearse, Jr.
***1928-L....... Ree aes desass Pe snshonahacel George Oldham Clarke
**%*1929-A......: So icone TERA <racosnctatomapets Irwin T. Saunders
OOS ODP. Sika opin MD Me rh ssi eavtes bavi. Philip R. Becker
OR Fis ode Pash eccnensee RMR MORE. (os, bs iakas otccuacdt Kenneth L. Keil
1990-3;,.:... § Wists Ries adknie) dedvobbavctses Leonard H. Davis
***1931-A......< | ee GB ios hah ikk Bede aviesianss Frank T. Bready
RD Eek, bins OR andes aceite biikic Sits check Pocbicoean phecanese ci Alumni Office
PEA GOI 5. desde Poke peaiccits RN ics bircties John Clinton Harris
***1932-L...... er iitectvics a ictadcs tovtatoiecceows Albert G. Peery
OREO RAs ini A Es covcaticean SAME sarc. sc icticeaticcen od Luther Violett, Jr.
ee LEY AS Se OE RO is rtceice ate J. J. Framptom, Jr.
PAs 3 ie tiveapas scien LU hc Karel adcnacconsiesicans Foster M. Palmer
**1934-L....... ee is UO Ek Sccvcetnsesecatos Henry Taylor Jones
*#*1035-A...... RBaseesbetvset EROS hin aise William Schuhle, Jr.
***1935-L...... F tieotieihe Del Ti aint whl cucetiocdesnes Meredith Graham
PESTO SO5A cscs Pai cadinnces TMA ibaa sctsatesccoupabeas teas call James L, .Price
*#* 1936-L...... gs ree BGR kin a cals Shltieds W. E. (Tex) Tilson
OR 193724.) Lo ataicieee BLO cialscaocdanysdoen L. V. (Jimmie) Butler
moan! fe SRR | EL Sits civecisscenklotieneccedhal Edwin M. Marx
**1938-A...... La teiskcsske NR ahi aveidccltg eataioenee Harry M. Butler
1938-L...... Bee cade SOs retin aanted samen athe Dwight L. File
PIO SO A. os SE cnsclacccpe? ea casskekteedhctalecoces Charles H. Semple
1939-L...... Gidea COBO saccseede5ss cans John L. Hawkins, II
***104()-A......< SF ccttosontek COE NID iii vce acssienespaheatdegliad A. Lea Booth
1940-L...... < Dicvesihiinn’ BOD reeks issn tudiens Stanford L. Schewel
991941] Ain DO kicicskcedett BZG6.DG. cbeictesadixasthotetaptules Paul D. Brown
**1941-L....... Wacnsencas BD. GUNES. =. xi vas dugeenneeeniee Pete S. Barrow
#€91942-A., £22. OO vicscaseests MRLs. Petes. vtsies askin Robert T. Vaughan
0419422 Fite 5 odes 44 BO eee Homer A .Jones, Jr.
1943-&......18......c0000 LSS:05. i. .ccc ice Alumni Office
Teh aicas 1400....$12,149.75

Nore: ‘The above report of the 1943 Alumni Fund
represents the largest number of contributors and_ the

largest amount of money received in any year since the
Class Agent Plan was started in 1933, exceeding last
year’s totals by 213 contributors and $2,099.14.

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, ‘27, Ho-
te! General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia
Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, '14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G, Young, ‘40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 21st
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, '37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—John M. Capito, ‘38,
Box 1913

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Companv

Chicago, Illinois—Robert D. Howerton, °32, 146
West Kinzie Street

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, ‘07, 1426 Clay
Street

Charlotte, North Carolina—John L. Crist, °13.
Box 1045

Cleveland, Ohio—Bon F. Fiery, 13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Car! V. Harris, ‘28, P. O.
Box 667

Danville, Pee. C. H. Wilson, '24, P. O.
Box 61

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320
East Grand Pou’evard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, ‘21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,'29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,'25,
1211 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—Fielden Woodward, ‘37,
Ke ntucky Home Life Building

Lynchburg, Virginia—C. Lynch Christian, ‘16,
Consolidated Coal Company

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
°37, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. Grimley, ‘21, 7
North Broad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, '30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,'31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northerr Couisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,

Jr., °29, 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
port Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, °31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg. West Virginia—Claude P. Light,

‘06, Court House

ae ee Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
4, 3422 Warden Drive

Piedmort—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsbur¢eh, Pennsylvania—C. P. Robinson, ’10,
806 Park Building

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

Richmond, Virginia—Judge Carleton E. Jew-
ett, ‘91, 1500 West 41st Street

Roaroke, Virginia—W. Courtney King,’21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, 94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Russell B. Wine, '12, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

St. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, ’32.
5142 Westminster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntineton, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer. ‘36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C.—William O. Burtner, ‘17,
2406 North Upton Street, Arlington, Vir-
ginia

Waynesboro, Virginia—William C. Raftery,'16,
3 Wayne Avenue

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by

The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
Kentered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIV OCTOBER, 1943 No. 1
Peers 5 te 5. *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Edtt0r.....5..0.6c.c0.ccc..cssene Mary Barciay

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

ps 1 Rea Seppe Sie RocEr J. Bear, 1914
Secretary........... ...*Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Joun L. Crist, 1913
RicHarp T. Epwarps, 1933
Ropert P. Horson, 1914
Ki Witiiams, 1915
Joun W. Drye, 1920
J. W. Mitnegr, 1915

a8
Contents for October, 1943

PAGE
The Year in Summary (The President’s P ee 3s kk 2
Thét9Sm) Seesink- Opens 227 ht ee 3
Articles of Historic Value Acquired.........0.......00000000004. 4
Howe Portrait Presented to University......0.00..0......... 5
Leonard Clinton Helderman, 1895-1943... 7
Gd ROOT oo oo, Mt a sete Ta aR oat Pp &
DARE TUMORS i iicric is 35:3 sii ue cae i.) 9
\dditions to List of Alumni in Service... 10
service Casualties.................... MS 5 Las ec 15
Perlis estes: Ween ied Be es ae eg 15
\ Message from Your Alumni President...................... 16
RCS OR ces emmy = a amr ad ee ole th Pe IaP a 17

* On leave of absence for the duration.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Year in Summary

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

(Introductory Paragraphs of the Annual Report Submitted to the Board of Trustees)

F I were instructed to summarize the year 1942-
44 in a single abstraction, I should choose the
term, “uncertainty.” There was uncertainty for
the students, whether in the reserves or not, as
to when and how they might be called upon to
relate themselves to active duty in the armed
forces; there was uncertainty for many of the
faculty who were expecting some kind of sum-
mons, and uncertainty for the other teachers who
did not know what sudden and drastic adjustment
might be made in their instructional loads; there
was abiding and distressing uncertainty for the
University as an administrative unit, uninformed
as to how it would be permitted to undertake one
or more of the various training programs spon-
sored by the Government. Such information as
we received during the session was scanty, often
the mere gossip of the grape-vines we could
swing, and even if authentic, subject to radical
change without notice.

To read carefully the reports of my associates
is to find in detailed form a synopsis of the aca-
demic history. The Treasurer’s statistics indicate
that in spite of vicissitudes we came to the end
of the year with a surplus of income over ex-
penditure; the Registrar’s analysis shows that
we had a gross enrollment, although a very in-
consistent enrollment, of about two-thirds of our
normal attendance; the Deans of the Law School
and of the Commerce School reveal the shrinkage
of enrollment in their divisions; the Dean of the
University shows the modifications of class-room
work and the heroic efforts at quick response to
changed conditions; other messages carry varying 1m-
plications of change in the face of influences over which
we could exercise no control.

The shattering of academic cohesion, if I may put it
that way, which has characterized Washington and Lee
is reflected in the manner and quantity of our conferring
of degrees in these recent months, a departure from our
traditional yearly custom: 13 in August 1942; 50 in
January 1943; 73 in May 1943;; 28 in August 1943.

As I write these words, here in the beginning of the
1943-44 session, we have on our campus three fairly

 

distinct efforts: a group of civilian students, numbering
about 120, and including many boys well under the

draft age of eighteen; a group of enlisted undergrad-
uates of the Army Specialized Training Program, in-
cluding approximately 250 men in _ pre-engineering
work, and approximately 50 men in pre-medical work,
all taught by members of our faculty; and the Army
School for Special Service, a group of approximately
400 commissioned officers, using some of our buildings
and facilities on a rental basis, but in no sense under our
faculty or our counseling or our social guidance.

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The 195th Session Opens

By Bruce Quayte, 1945

ASHINGTON AND L&E has gone to war. G. I. khaki
W::: jeeps have replaced the sports coats and con-
vertibles of former years. The Dutch Inn is an Army mess
hall; the freshmen dormitory is a barracks. Drill forma-
tions and calisthenic classes tread the soil of Wilson
ield where once the Generals’ elevens battled.

By both combining and sharing its facilities and pro-
fessors with the Army, Washington and Lee is handling
within its confines three student groups. A small civilian
body, numbering 120 students, attends regular classes.
A unit of the Army Specialized Training Program, the
AST, receives courses similar to the normal peace-time
studies of the University, plus extra training in subjects
especially for military use. A second army group, the
school for Special Service, carries on studies designed
for officers of the Army and the WAC.

Regular students are finding conditions very much
changed from the University they knew in past years.
Hardest hit by wartime demands is the School of Law.
The faculty has been reduced to a scant three, while the
students number five. The School of Commerce and
Administration has also felt the weight of war through
the loss of instructors to essential civilian and military
posts. Elementary courses are still in existence, but few
advanced subjects are being offered. The College of Arts
and Sciences has in general maintained the more im-
portant advanced and freshmen courses, since a large
part of the incoming class is aiming at either a pre-law
or a pre-medical degree. Dean Robert H. Tucker has
planned the schedule so as to offer what he calls “the
fundamental courses” of mathematics, history, language,
and science.

Our unit of the Army Specialized Training Program,
numbering some 300 men, began operations here on
August 9. Each class or contingent receives a period of
six months training at Washington and Lee. While
they do not attend classes with the regular students, the
AST men obtain similar instruction to that offered in
the University curriculum and are taught by regular
members of the faculty. In addition they attend other
classes required by the Army. AST students are bar-
racked in six fraternity houses rented from the now
quiescent local chapters. Meals are being served in a
newly-constructed mess hall, which is on the back

campus immediately adjoining the journalism print
shop. Previously they had been forced to march to the
VMI mess three times daily.

On December 7 the School for Special Service will
mark its first anniversary in Lexington. During this
time the SSS, with a normal complement of about 440,
has carried through an extensive educational plan, the
purpose of which is to train special service officers for
both field and combat service. The course of studies
deals with four main topics: athletics and recreation,
technical training, military tactics, and information and
education. The SSS has rented Tucker Hall exclusively
for its own use and has classrooms in several other
buildings, The freshmen dormitory serves as barracks
and the University Dining Hall is the officers’ mess.
WAC students are quartered in a rented fraternity
house. During the past year, the student officers have
received some practical experience by conducting sev-
eral shows and concerts for the people of Lexington.

Naturally, with such a reduced civilian group, the
normal extra-curricular and social activities have been
forced into suspension. All intercollegiate sports have
been dropped for the duration, but a complete program
of intra-mural competition is in full swing. The funds
and names of all three student publications, the Ring-
tum Phi, the Southern Collegian, and the Calyx, have
been frozen by the Executive Committee of the Student
Body. However a small weekly newspaper, The Columns,
still brings the news of Washington and Lee to the
public. The Christian Council, the Troubadours, and
the Executive Committee of the student body are func-
tioning as usual, although on a reduced scale. All large
dances, such as Fancy Dress, are a thing of the past, but
several smaller dances are being considered.

All in all, the plan this year is for more emphasis on
work and less on play. As President Francis P. Gaines
stated in his address to the opening assembly of the
student body in regard to a present-day college educa-
tion, “The icing is gone, but the cake is still here.”

This is a new year at Washington and Lee, a harder
working, a grimmer year. Every student means business.
The outlook is clear, and Washington and Lee has gone
tO: War...

(Continued on Page 6)

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Ambrotype of Buildings Taken About a Century Ago

Articles of Historic Value Acquired

Wo AND L&E University has recently re-
ceived from Mrs. William Allan of Charlotte,
North Carolina, through Miss Mary Barclay of the

Alumni Office, several articles of historic value. ‘The
following is a list of these articles:

Washington and Lee
Nos. 2, 4, and 6.

Sound volume of Washington College Catalogues of
the years 1853, 1859-60, 1866, 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870,

1871, 1872. These catalogues cover the period of Gen-

University Historical Papers,

eral R. E. Lee’s presidency, and contain outlines of the
new courses mtroduced in the college by him.
Catalogue of the Alumni of Washington College from
the founding to 1868.
Catalogue of the Alumni from the founding of the
College to 1889.
Charter and

Laws of Washington College. Revised

1866. Inaugural Address by President George Junkin,

D.D., 1849, on Christianity the Patron of Literature and
Science. Papers on the Organization of the Lee Monu-
ment Association, 1871.

Addresses before the Literary Societies by the follow-
ing: General Wade Hampton, 1868; Rev. R. A. Holland,
1869; Bishop E. M. Marvin, 1870; Joseph W. Taylor,
1871; B. M. Palmer, D.D., 1872.

Addresses before the Alumni Association by: Colonel
Bolivar Christian, 1860, on the Scotch-Irish Settlers in
the Valley of Virginia; Rev. C. B. Davidson, 1869;
Plan for Endowment of a Missouri Professorship, by
R. D. Lilley, 1870.

An Address on The Campaigns of General Robert E.
Lee, by General Jubal A. Early, in Lee Chapel, 1872.

An Address

South Carolina, by General Jubal A. Early, 1872.

before the Survivors’ Association of

(Continued on Page 6)

14 4

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Howe Portrait Presented to University

Te HE splendid portrait of Professor James Lewis Howe
reproduced on this page was presented to the Uni-
versity by a group of about seventy-five of his former
students and ad-
mirers among the
Washington and
lee alumni.

The sponsoring
committee was
composed of Jas.
A. Lee ‘17, Julian
S. Gravely ’08, H.
W. Dew ’11, J. D.
Whetzel °14, and
C. M. Switzer ‘15.
The portrait is
the work of Miss
Hattie EK. Bur-
dette of Wash-
ington, D. C. Miss
Burdette followed
the general lines
of an excellent
photograph made
some 18 years ago,
supplementing
this by her own
Dr.
last

sketches of
Howe, made

Spring in his of-

fice,
James Lewis
Howe was. born

at Newburyport, Massachusetts, August 4, 1859. He re-
ceived his bachelor’s degree at Amherst and his Ph.D.
at Gottingen. After teaching in Kentucky for eleven
years, Dr. Howe came to Washington and Lee in Jan-
uary, 1894, and served actively as professor and head of
the department until 1938, when he was made professor
emeritus and Historian of the University. His relaion to

 

the chemistry department on this campus is well ex-
pressed by the statement that “‘an institution is but the
lengthened shadow of a man’’—a statement which needs
no amplification
to the hundreds of
former students
who gratefully
recognize his in-
fluence in their
lives.

As one of them
(S.C. Lind, 1900)
wrote in a chem-
ical journal in
1926:

‘From New
Kngland to a life-
time Virginia pro-
fessorship is not
a frequent transi-
tion, but to know
Dr.
understand it. His

Howe is to
universal interest
in science, in
church, in human-
ity; his absolute
lack of any petty
qualities; his un-
failing optimism
and unflagging
energy; his abil-

ity to awaken en-
thusiasm in all of his hearers, linked him indissolubly to
students and colleagues alike. With him the spirit of ser-
vice has always been foremost. This has given to the
South for a third of a century one of its most brilliant
teachers of chemistry and has brought to Howe that
which when well-rendered service

satisfaction comes

meets its full share of appreciation.”

 

ApmiRAL C. P. Snyver, "99, reached the official re-
tirement age on July 10, 1943. In accordance with the
laws on this subject, he was placed on the retired list as

of August 1, 1943. Having been Commander, Battle

Force, U. S. Fleet, with the rank of Admiral, (four
stars), he was retired with this rank. He is continuing to
serve on active duty as the Naval Inspector General with

rank of Admiral.

[5 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The 195th Session Opens

(Continued from Page 3)
Sons of Alwmni

Of the 120 students enrolled this year, eight freshmen
and upper classmen are sons of alumni and one fresh-
man is a grandson of an alumnus.

Son Father
Thomas Crockett Bowen, Jr.....Thomas Crockett Bowen, °97
George Henry Bowers, III............ George Henry Bowers, ’23
SOne LAN Brannon sein0 Giceccs oct ehd oa Linn Mapel Brannon, ’24
Robert Oscar Crockett, Jr............. Robert Oscar Crockett, ’02
William Alexander Davidson....Dr. Herman P. Davidson, °13
David Vance Guthrie, Jr........... Dr. David Vance Guthrie, ’03
Chisries’: Calhotiss:: Fi meaaee FIP 3 cis wicivcichisacct- avectnotnraacees

Cicthte Sata ees *Samuel G. Anspach, ’90 (Grandfather)
PRCELG VV 1S6 BBG spi iaccesestskie ictiserseacdou Henry Wise Kelly, 713
William Herman Pifet.................000000 Dr. Herman I. Pifer, ’18
Enos Rogers Pleasants.............0 *K nos Rogers Pleasants, °18
USERID STT 2 RE Cleats dream Aiolncko checkath idan ties Lamar Polk, °15
FO Ts. SEV CRMC SFM aicckes bic ctcecdelsovesntae Joe L. Silverstein, ’22
VV Rint Se Ontier “isthe oon5n 5 ccedeenecceashcgteae Ray S$. Smith, 714
CHBGLE SOGF OW) Gidisecd cstedecdlasrcteiptocs *Dr. Clifford Sperow, 795
Foun Foreater . TAG IOL acs ccessesthatdnveaeen J. Wesley Taylor, ’26
Alexander. Hamilton Walker............/ Alexander M. Walker, ’20

Faculty Members in the Services

lORTY MEMBERS of the faculty and staff of Wash-
ington and Lee are serving in the armed forces of this
country or are doing important civilian war work for
the Government or industry. This number represents
almost half of the regular faculty. Of these forty,
eighteen have been commissioned by the Navy, nine by
the Army, and eleven are serving in civilian occupations.

 

Dr. Witey D. Forsus, Professor of Pathology, Duke
University, and Pathologist to the Duke Hospital, has
recently published “Reaction to Injury,
students of Disease, based on the Functional and Mor-

. Face curd 5,
phological Responses of Tissues to Injurious Agents,
Williams & Wilkins Company, Baltimore, 2, Maryland.

-athology for

Dr. Forbus took his A.B. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1916, and his M.D. from Johns Hopkins in
1923. At Washington and Lee he was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta and Phi Beta Kappa.

 

ANYONE having a Calyx for 1913, who is willing to
part with it, please notify the Alumni Office. If located
send to: Mrs. S$. N. Yonan, 1175 Francisco Street, San
I‘rancisco, California.

 

LigutT. GARRET H1kr’s, Jr., B.A. ’39, is serving on
the staff of the Army School for Special Service at
Washington and Lee.

*Deceased

Articles of Historic Value

(Continued from Page 4)

An Historical Account of the Erection of the Virginia
State Capitol, Old Dominion Magazine, 1871.

Catalogue of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, 93 pages,
published in 1859; 29 chapters; about 1100 names.

The dates of the above papers and College Catalogues
fall within the period when Colonel William Allan was
Professor of Applied Mathematics at Washington and
Lee University, from 1866 to 1873. The papers and
Catalogues were probably originally collected by Col-
onel Allan, and later came into the possession of his son,
the late Dr. William Allan, of the Class of 1902.

In addition to the above articles, there was received
from Mrs. Allan an ambrotype photograph of the Wash-
ington College buildings, as they were about a century
ago. The ambrotype is about 4% by 6% inches in size,
in a folding leather case. An ambrotype is sometimes
mistakenly called a daguerreotype. The daguerreotype
photographic process was invented by Daguerre about
1839. In this process the photograph is taken on a copper
plate, and remains on the metal plate.

Shortly after the invention of the daguerreotype, the
ambrotype process was devised. In this process the
photograph is taken on a glass plate, and remains on the
glass as a positive, and not a negative. No print is made
from an ambrotype.

The ambrotype of the Washington College buildings
is the original photograph of these buildings as they
stood when the picture was taken.

There are in existence several engravings, and _pic-
tures of the College buildings, which are historically
inaccurate. This is the case of the pictures of the College,
in the Treasurer’s and Dean’s offices, in the Student Un-
ion Building, on old College stationery, and on the College
China plates.

The ambrotype picture mentioned above is true to
life, and it should be the starting point for the writing
of a true history of the College buildings.

LESLIE LYLE CAMPBELL, 1887

 

New Arrivals

Mr. and Mrs. Claude A. LaVarre, A.B. °33, have a
son, Claude A., Jr., born May 3, 1943.

Lieutenant and Mrs. Franklin W. Hynson, B.S. *41,
have a son, Franklin Weller, Jr., born June 10, 1943.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Brown Miller, have a son H. Brown
Miller, III, born October 9, 1943.

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Leonard Clinton Helderman, 1895-1943

Dr. LEONARD CLINTON HELDERMAN, Professor of
History in Washington and Lee University, and mem-
ber of the faculty since 1925, died at his home in Monroe
Park, Lexington, July 10, 1943, following a week’s
illness. His untimely death came as a shock to the Uni-
versity campus, and to Wash-
ington and Lee alumni every-
where his passing will bring
profound sorrow.

Sorn at Vincennes, Indiana,
in 1895, Dr. Helderman was
educated in the public schools,
and received his A.B. degree
from Indiana State in 1921.
Meanwhile, he had served in
the United States Army dur-
ing the first World War, and
for a time served as instructor
at Camp Grant, Illinois. After
graduate study in the Univer-
sities of Chicago and Wiscon-
sin, in 1925 he was appointed
to the faculty of Washington
and lee University, where he
served sucessively as Assist-
ant Professor, Associate Pro-
fessor, and Professor of His-
tory. In 1929 he received his
Ph.D. in
University of Wisconsin.

history from the

As a member of the faculty at Washington and Lee,
Dr. Helderman soon earned distinction in such courses
for advanced students as American diplomatic history,
recent American history, American Constitutional de-
velopment, and the old South. In these courses he em-
ployed the seminar method with marked success. At the
sane time, he carried on intensive historical research
which resulted in a succession of books, articles, and
reviews. His prize winning dissertation was expanded

 

and published in 1931 as National and State Banks — A
Study of Their Origins, and in the next year he published
George Washington Patron of Learning. Alumni. will
recall that this volume’s appearance coincided with the
University’s Washington celebration, held in connection
with the national bi-centennial
of 1932 in honor of Washing-
ton’s birth.

On two occasions the Social
Science Council awarded Dr.
Helderman Grants-
in-Aid in recognition of his
work. In the mid-1930’s he
turned his attention to the
life and writings of George

research

Tucker, economist and friend
of Jefferson, and later inves-
tigated the career of George
Rogers Clark. He contributed
articles to learned journals and
to the Dictionary of American
History, and his last publica-
tion article in the
spring 1942 issue of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Review,
“The Virginia Bill of Rights.”

Was an

Protessor Helderman’s

concern for the welfare of
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity was zealous, and is es-
pecially illustrated by his work as Chairman of the Li-
brary Committee. When the McCormick Library was
planned and built in 1940-1941, he contributed generously
of his ideas and time. Repeatedly he served as a member
of the Faculty Executive and Advisory Committees.

His colleagues and students recognized in Dr. Helder-
man a champion of the highest ideals in University life,
and they know that in his death Washington and Lee
University has suffered an irreparable loss.

 

FRANK CUNNINGHAM, B.A.’32, is the author of Sky
Master, The Story of Donald Douglas, published by Dor-
rance & Company, Philadelphia, in July, 1943. Douglas
is shown against a background of aviation over the world.
Not only is the reader given an intimate knowledge of

the best-known name in the plane-manufacturing  fleld,
but he is shown a picture of aviation’s impetus and is
made acquainted with many men famous in the develop-
ment of airplane building. Sky Master is a must” on the
reading list of the air-minded world.

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

1867
Joun FLourNoy PoNbER, who was Washington and
Lee’s oldest living alumnus, died on August 4, 1943, at
his home in Los Angeles, California. He was born on
the family plantation near Montgomery, Alabama, De-
cember 9, 1847. Mr. Ponder was a student at Wash-
ington College during the presidency of General Robert
FE. Lee.
1869
EpmMuUND WILKINS WILLIAMS died May 10, 1943,
in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Mr. Williams was a student
here during the presidency of General Robert E. Lee.

1878

Dr. WILLIAM SPENSER CuRRELL, A.B. ’78, M.A. ’79,
died July 16, 1943, in a hospital in Asheville, North
Carolina, after an extended illness. Dr. Currell was out-
standing in the teaching profession. After receiving his
Ph.D. Degree in 1882, he went first to Hampden-Sydney
College, where he was professor of English from 1882 to
1886. From 1886 to 1895 he held the same position at
Davidson College, and from the latter date until 1914
was head of the English Department at Washington and
lee University. He became president of the University
of South Carolina in 1914 and remained such until
1922, at which date he retired as president of that uni-
versity and acted as dean of its graduate school until
1929. He was professor of English at the University of
South Carolina from 1929 until 1935 when he became
professor emeritus. Dr. Currell had the honorary degree
of L.L.D. bestowed upon him by three institutions, the
University of Alabama, Davidson College and the Uni-
versity of Florida. He was a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

1884

Dr. GEorcE A. WaucuopE, B.A., M.A., Litt.D., re-
cently retired head of the English Department of the
University of South Carolina, died June 6, 1943.

1892
VinEs E. TurNsuct died September 4, 1943, near
Rutherford, New Jersey, of a heart attack.

1896
Major Stockton Hern Tyrer, L.L.B., '96, died
September 5, 1943, in Radford, Virginia. Major Tyler

was a past president of the Norfolk and Portsmouth
Bar Association and distinguished himself in) many
helds.
1900
Hitton S$. Hampron, B.L., 1900, died April 8, 1943,
in Fiorida.
1904
Joun Knox ArNovp died July 30, 1943, in El Centro,
California.
1909
SimEON C. BUMGARNER died July 3, 1942, in Los
Angeles, California.
1912
WARREN ASHLEY RAINE, B.S.
Beach, California, August 31, 1943.

12, died at Long

1918
Loy DitLtarp Estes died February 10, 1943. He was
a member of the Law firm of Chizum, Estes and Ludlum
of Dallas, Texas.
1920
HENRY SoutuwortH BAKER, JR., died on January
11, 1943. His home was at 940 Linden Street, Sharon,
Pennsylvania.
1921
WittiAmM CaLuoun McLe£op died February 21, 1942.
His home was in Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

1921
THomas X. Parsons died on July 3, 1943. His home
was in Roanoke, Virginia.

1928
GEORGE CtypE Houcutins, Jr., died on December 12,
1942. His home had been in Roanoke, Virginia.

1931
GAINES S. Dospins, Jr., died April 30, 1943.

 

Mrs. Margaret Yeaton Hoyt, wife of Dr. WILLIAM
Dana Hoyv, professor of biology at Washington and
Lee, since 1915, died suddenly of a heart attack Sunday,
September 26, 1943.

Mrs. Henrietta Marvine Howe, wife of Dr. JAMEs
Lewis Howe, professor of chemistry at Washington and
Lee, since 1894, died October 11, 1943.

[8 |]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Marriages

1923

KrANK B. Hurt, professor at Western Maryland
Coilege, Westminster, Maryland, to Mary Ann Westcott,
June 3, 1943, in Washington, D. C.

ANDREW H. Harris, JRr., Lieutenant Colonel, U. 5S.
Army, to Louise Ogden Wright, June 30, 1943, in Silver
Springs, Maryland.

1935

RoBERT FRANKLIN Cooper, JR., to Mary Miller Wells,

September 16, 1943, in Jackson, Mississippi.

1937
ALEXANDER ERSKINE SprOuL, Captain, U. S. Army
Medical Corps, to Ruth Eileen Peters, May 27, 1943,
in Staunton, Virginia.
CLrarK Burrirr WINTER, Army Air
Margery Louise Forbes, September 12, 1943, in Denver,

forces, to

Colorado.
1938

Joun Merritrr to Marion Blair Jones, August 28,
1943, in New York, New York.

Harry MEtvin Puivporr, Lieutenant junior grade,
U.S. Naval Reserve, to Pauline Breck Moran, Septem-
ber 15, 1943, in New York, New York.

Rospert W. Hitton, Jr., Sergeant, U. S. Army, to
Mathilde Morse Biddle, May 1, 1943, in Cincinnati,
Ohio.

SAMUEL PARKER McCCHESNEy, JR., Lieutenant, U.
5S. Naval Reserve, to Edna Margaret McCorkle, Octo-
ber 9, 1943, in East Berlin, Connecticut.

1939

HASKELL TYNDALL Dickinson, Captain, U. S. Army,
to Carrie Ellen Remmel, August 14, 1943, in Little Rock,
Arkansas.

Joun LiLLtarp Davis, Sergeant, U. S. Army, to
Judith Preston, August 28, 1943, in Indianapolis, In-
diana.

1940

GILBERT GARDNER, to Emily Constance Westwood,
July 7, 1943, in Lincoln, Nebraska.

GROVER CLEVELAND BALDWIN, JR., Lieutenant, U. S.
Army Air Corps, to Dale Bogert, May 22, 1943, in
Deming, New Mexico.

1941

KENNETH BROOKE VAN DE WATER, JR., Lieutenant

(j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve, to Mary Churchill Walker,
June 26, 1943, in Petersburg, Virginia.

CLiFFoRD HEWEstToN MULLER, First Lieutenant, U.
S. Army Air Forces, to Betsy Stoner Boyd, June 5,
1943, in Dallas Texas.

1942

ApbRIAN LERoy BENDHEIM, Jr., Ensign, U. S. Naval
Reserve, to Shirley Liberles, August 8, 1943, in Balti-
more, Maryland.

WILLIAM BrApForp Dunson, Ensign, U. S. Naval
Reserve, to Elizabeth Hudson Leman, August 14, 1943,
in LaGrange, Georgia.

Joun ALDEN Empry, Jr., Army Air Corps Cadet, to
Jane Lee Bentley, July 17, 1943.

Louis CAMERON GREENTREE, Ensign, U. S. Naval
Reserve, to Ann Deane Weinberg, June 24, 1943, in
Baltimore, Maryland.

RAYMOND Bourcy WuitAkekr, Lieutenant, U. S.
Army, to Kileen Marie Daly, July 31, 1943, in Camp
Phillips, Kansas.

Joun Jog WILKINSON, Ensign, U. S. Naval Reserve,
to Eloise Merrell Rawles, May 29, 1943, in New York,
New York.

1943

Burr I. Grirren, Jr., Corporal, U. S. Army Air
Corps, to Eva Mae Powers, July 4, 1943.

{DWIN ALBERT ZELNICKER, Jr., Army Air Corps
Cadet, to Edith Goldstein, June 26, 1943, in Monroe,
Louisiana.

CORNEAL BERNARD Mykrs, Jr., Ensign, U. S. Naval
Reserve, to Ann Farrar Peterson, September 25, 1943,
in Lakeland, Florida.

1944

Ropert RANDALL GIEBEL, Lieutenant, U. S. Army,
to Elizabeth Tienken, June 14, 1943, in Garden City,
Long Island, New York.

1946

AutTHurR Vicror MiLona to Clara Virginia Ashburne,

August 27, 1943, in Lexington, Virginia.

 

On July 1, 1943, Miss Ann McNutt, daughter of Mr.
R. J. McNutt, of Brownsburg, Virginia, was married
to Mr. Thomas E. Lothery, of Lexington, Virginia. Mr.
Lothery is the son of Mr. and Mrs. 'T. Earl Lothery, of
Davidson, North Carolina, and is assistant professor of
physics at Washington and Lee University.

[9 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of October 30, 1943

Nore: This list of 631 alumni in service comprises
the sixth published addition to the list of Washington and
lee men in service, published in the May, 1942, Maga-
zine. Washington and Lee now has 2510 alumni listed in
the armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or oher address from which mail will be forward-
ed, special activities, type of service or training, etc. The
permanent home address is most important as service ad-
dresses change so rapidly.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possible
with our alumni in this time of stress, and any informa-
tion concerning alumni in service will be greatly appreci-
ated by this office.

In the listing below,
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
A, Army of the United States; AAF, Army
Air Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air
Corps; MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
American Field Service; MMS, United States Merchant
Marine Service. An asterisk (*) following he above
symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

certain symbols have been used

as follows:

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

PES. CS CERIE AE ae SO Mratiesncktsdiveiabessucisnccdsnageaveavanbapbutentes A
PUI TE ASTRO 5 Fee RNs AEE dekard vin Svischahcncceakabeasobenhd sign dieesddebadaamen A
Addison, Francis aioe H ae Mitt dicidcsckininbdaisdde ccastancesacetieaiiats N
a anene SACeee Re Geei tee Ss oe is snide sntipsibenmadoaabane AAF
PE AOE, Fe aides Hots oven ic bbdeld co Pawn dscacnius 2b ch gungcisttvemackeousiella MC
Aisenberg, Alvin RNR I a ar a eo sadabocmibaates N
ATSC VV Tiisetee FCC OPICe, OG oo akc ciiccdceveccunkscusecbivcdsvebdotenans MC
Pi latest’ T iidk ACER Bie cach cob cibeis sochevasshagrtosabnensedsrtennanio ypewnsabay N*
Rate icin Wee: SECA 5 Wtsciviseckeceec chi tesiidesonswhscacdin cs sfaaihatehe nin ses N
Asidtewsa, Raelot: Neilso F9 is Abid cccscssciudses cps asnecbavasssogeogbes AAF*
SERRE EN DOUALA” Fo VE OG, EI paconzs'okh Shaes othchintgbin shanspbeseelnandstenondiogah N*
Pe Pete Esai. WY 57> FAsk i pcckontdanbckaes sdecustbabindsimccpebecndasteglenastanesdniadl N*
PA. IMS. Ar Mae ae cde abe dnavives deviates sclaphdubectanprededeseptinntibankondes N*
Peete Teenie SAMO WlG, \4 Sis: oinccksinonacehpoedadasbaaveathecsvbedeconoik Salone N
Fee AFORE: FP OBLEU Tie activate obb sacétic sins cpbincoonsaathcteaarepabee gs beanaltg’ A*
PGR Ps BRUT; 1 WG soicictns ote ep pataccheshaathsaedcteuicheabessbeves chasthconpeatetd A
ax eee: Sr aTiaetl ~ WU OINDD, AMES akc d wecec custeaksensacivecechvshiamiantandammpeenns N

 

* Indicates commissioned officer.
** Killed in training or combat.
*** Officially missing in action.

Name and Class Branch of Service

Daney, Jamies .David,. °45.....ciccc..cccssctsacecdessecbetann ae A
Baker, Raiph Parr, ’40., ...ccciccccosconssecheccésceclteacsens ee taame taal aes J A *
Baker, Thomas Hart, ’36.....:.cé.i<:sicbecossbcbunecgeeee ena A*
Baker, William Cross, Jr., ’38.....s:isisecowssess eine deeen ea chee N*
Ball; Daniel Hurlbut, 746.......<25...00idschscodcahstei eee ce N
Ballenger, Clarence Eugene, Jr., 744...c.c.cciesctslnvdeedshosttbesebaceses MC
Bandy, Henry Martin, '33...060.5.s..icssschtasuseseaet ee N*
Bannon, John Eugene, °43.......:5::..secstcsodhachasinenet eens. N*
Barns, Paul Dryden, Jr. °44.....<c0cccsscsiaatassd eee en a, N
Barrett, John Lawrence, '44.....:icocssscediisessneghss ec eene MC
Barron, William: Wallace, °34..cciwudie ee MC
Bartlebaugh, Richard Edwin, ’45. ccd. ee. MC
Bates, Paul James, °46205.06..ci055tetjcifedeacn AAF
Batten, Grover F., :°GB....c...cccs..0cs<cuussasesie nee A*
Bauer, Harry William, Jr., -’40..é.<ccsuc ee A
Beagle, John Stewart, ’36.........<ccscasdecen waneeee ce as N*
Beale, James. Chesley,: Jr., ’36...:cicdiscc eee eto icaaaes N
Bear, Roger Jones, J¥.5 °45...csicc.icsuccvernas ane AAF
Beard, William T.., Jr, ’3O.cic..<ccccucacbeserasieee neni NAC*
Beatty, Herbert Franklin, .“4]iiijciiiacccer een AAF
Beazlie, Frank Smoot, Jr, “40. Accccehcecsssieeee sees drciediiascsses N
Becker, Eugene Alan, '41..6cc.cciciscl ce aes tikka cd A*
Bell, Ernest Abner,. Jr, ?45.sicccssscccsesaneeeeeeeeee ieee Paap anenast coos N
Belser, Townsend Mikell, °S31.x....:<issasctsccusateeaaicctaididcasebbanteonss N*
Benson, Alexender Ross,,.’39..<:.t.;ccscccsuatdesbane eens ced hdsnastes MC*
Benvenuti, Lyle Ernest, ’3B......cssccivcasstlbeaas ee eeaeineiebes raaes eas eos N
Berry, Frank Allen, Jr, '4G:.cicc:c cscs essen N
Berry, James Frederick; 43 ....cccctcssiecscansnae ea eaaetaen a cece N
Bettis, A.- 1.2, °26..cc<cccoscocsespeocaseiigh tincnseen ain sinn nnn nnnnEAIE IERIE daca ds N
Biddison, Jefferson, 745....::s:cecsheccestiassunneeeeiieeie anna dkces sk. N
Bigger, Morton, JP, °46..cccocscalpuctanscsss coaieneeanenennease Ee ced AAF
Billingslea, Robert Kerr; J r,,:’@4,.:scsssneaieisatesteksssestavtaaivicasane se MC
Bindon, Malcolm Campbell A4ciiiee atts cei aiones MC
Bird, George Tossy, °’45i...:5,:ciscsntestsass eee enna inna NAC
Bird, Ralph Seaman, Jr.; *41 .iscs.ccusseesssscaisia ene ennUeateletaeh=y A*
Black, Marshall, ’33.........ccccccseucueussneensnnaienann an nnnnnn Era ns MC
Black, Newton Reid, "25ss.cci)<.c:.ccndeaeeeee ase RIE stints ets. \
Blair, Charles E,d-wist,  ’40);..cccscccccseeietanseeee reeset esavttecceced A
Blandford, Charles Terry, | "Qisijitenseleneieeieiediaeeci es. A*
Blanken, Edward Joseph; "4ocsccccgeaecissiiseeeeen tte tnatinedsess:.-- N
Blanks, James William, ae count evs See enEAN TRACE tarde chskane ood A*
Blocher, Arch Charles, Jr, ’43........0....csccccccsssssssseccessssescssseesooceseed A*
Bond, Calhoun, °43...i...ccsciccaccschccoheltnssebasieheiianisiigiiaisMabbeunssadlihas cose N*
Bonham, John Arthur, 744.........ccssccsccscccsscccsssssesscecscccccerssoeseee J AAF
Bostwick, Maurice Eugene, 40.................c.ccsssssssccccssseccsessseess AAF
Boucher, Francois Robert, '45......cccccccssssseccccsssssssescseesssccvcesereed AAF
Boxill, Gale Clarke, 40 jcc: cecicccoscvssvncssssseetsasesessesbivstincssbesdeccescosseveed \
Bradley, James Vandiver, 745...........sssssccsesseccessssesssrssssscssssssseeed A
Brady, Walter F., °43..........cccsscssessseeseessesesseessesenssssseneseterssseeeeterseed A
Brennan, Bernard Elliott, ’35.. <:ccsiiscethiedineted Maapaeeetieesopeed AAF*
Brock, Allen Houston, °44..........cccccccsscsccscssceececeescceesssssesssesssesenes N*
Broders, Albert Crompton, Jr., '38.......c.cccccssssccssssssseeseseesereees N*
Brooke, George, Jr.,'42.....ccccscscescsceeeeesseessssesenenereeeeeeesseeeeseseeeeeeeeeees \
Brooks, Franck Crouch, °46........cccccceescessseseseseesseeeeesstereeeeeesenes N
Brooks, John Hock, '45.....cccccceescceeesesesesseseenereseeeseeesaneeneeeenesnnesenees N
Brown, Earle Palmer, °44.......ccccccesssseeseessseeesesessseesteresnereeceessees N
Brown, Theodore, R., ’22.......ssssssesesssecesresssesssreessereeseseseseeeseesseeeed A*
Brown, William Baird, '44........ccccceeeeseeeeeeeerteeteeereeseeeeereed AAF
Browne, George Anderson, 35......ssseseeeeeerseseeeetneeeseneenenseneeeees A*

[ 10 |]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

eet We Oe esa edb caccsnn cqshie tian Gauniiaahabackbanotbah CG
ERS eiia gis, | PRM PAMIORE, 3, Fb see osvcccadcncscccsvasseussoophprcinesecencahtaea A
Bs PE CT TI ani scathing sthicna ns vino en candi clas conniares naucbegopiia <a N
BerAait, | Fe POL ORe i ae iisstesbbntaecesd ccdeevisvaniariccd udrcreetibsttnetyei td A
BCT EL iOORe UE Im. Wisi diac kprenidctevisshectbers itedinegheniyeaeehedetonety A
Eocene, MCP ial Ee emer pece din hesscsiipephovetacandiccitheksonquntint veld A*
UPC AI TR ORG 2s ais dics és theendcdesiSipetcecocgaevoaionnee \AF
POSS is | Cre sO I sca th Second calkgsdilaneh dncnsbheipbnneh Caesaeaiel A*
a er or eR ike FER aa. cgi conan chin sad uedh yooh bi biaosaey Gaited A
BUSReH, SPUTEE APOE, iii ckdh acs tteersioniinienaes A
Berths: OOrE Pee. EEG. 4a isicicctasccnsnakscasévuinsctaverennopegabianee’ N
Bah a a elastin isieidovsednatsenn ddebevadaslisonbebatnnesasengulovell A
Ce SF ee sicelalcednedeandetd phasevinaeeaial A*
CalwGr', CeO te Ws: BGs vaikesenccdcesusiscetpvidehsilacdieespaiieastanaie N
CORRES 5 RRO I iii tccns prschcegstsccdtiasgonnspainecns loss NAC
a eh Ta io oii inch cckak Haas tapnnio>dcdaddkactiecnppeetlied AAF
Carine EER Pe, FU ais a vsvine tcc stcniinsbdtbesnatdaheoagenstganesenkcla’ A
CAsey. FON: Se ED hoses cess ck scdisvacecshnbundessdecanseveqnivistbcnted MC
COREE, BERD POM 908 i555 -scncks ctdteisconcevsheiodsncuicscshinsageiol A
Ca Vee se I a skeen cpdsdictuodhapevensandcnaccusevenepbivedd A AF
OR ee ooo iis cecacasstssdansvnartetintbeaskitont N
CURE ie aa Oak edi Ski See hanes ncdcupedoatvedéogaceduanovsansieel A*
Cain eee Rr Fg a raicidi taei biases acinscasicdespescodinetipiiny N
eR ie eee DR |. a aca 2 SS al er ep NAC
Cer PUD IEEE. ATES is wc icahs ceases icbdbdpocunctiaaspenedetéeanibnoats NAC
CO FR PUB Be oii ics cick dice eoscnndine Didoae vk Uiindi intake N*
CR i ics sca Nev bon bacensbndursienhaiiees ca eghs.. wats cig N
CRE Fe SEES 0D, iakinchctsdiverinnicetidindveintcnieatgiebitnietom nal N
COR IU rr areeah Etre ee 0a sida tsihiw chs dacecstvcdbeassossc av civigabbneriie otal A
Calin; Ceetee. Ve artPae ss J Bg.’ SPs ccecocisis pondsvsiecdnssinoustogocooecceegtet A*
CREAR OG An OORO OTE Sig BD is rcatnddicarndedbinidnvdstbidivsdteriersdestetinaeosatl AAF
Ce, STRSTR BOP Rcd e s os cslacs cases cians hannsinbtenate apodab peaboeeaaeeneen N
COE Ty Se i as disk ks avsegcotopiclsegicchaeeaienanae MC
Conley FROG ROr BEB Wi aaicbassidcenisicacides sanitsiindartckes aaa N
COGIIET.. WV SEERA PAOD G, 9G iaccesc date cciphisidsvecssncvedbscdvisnsbocdnan NAC
letra iar > TG oie CNN. FO. cesiisichaahctsecntpanesseseditiecewinivscbapaicivoaiai N
Cs FN Be Fass wis di snnltuintic vase cvcrive onculieanecsep aanin A
aay cement TUNG RC IE Gi dk sciitcs otha eiccert Leddbdakecs seeds aides MMS
Crittenden, William Cunningham, 745..0...............ccccsssscssserrereecees N
GREE RI RG Oi a inca, PAE Zeus cdstansevekin sabeicidadtys shila N
CRIT ae Be i 85 is ccd cn duty ip wbvbadindaknnd hoadaodnt Aedione huvetsl N
Crinset,. Melvin Bevan, F092 OO e.c. its viscksctacclsecticéccsastnciedecteatets N
CO I RN, Sons. Een Las eindnweppetnes apt ateatohaaiien N*
CS Te Ease RI) FN ees caintcsd calijassinh Us ac dada,nagecs\tapssvatucelibotalan N
Cente WA Fi canta ADs Soci cio eastnket ig eakinscptvckcieontmnedl AAF
Dia Gee, PASAT 2 ATOR, SLL Ay = MOnsaptidepecies leis repiscsncthinngetie NAC*
Diy, Fe POE OFA cess a doicss cdoicdcsisbeconiuntetndersaints AAF*
aes eam a i dan oii, spkakebscicoptain lo pes basanites MC
EPR PORE REE: VV RUE OF Lapeoerscncovenitcncckestpachansdamamesccrosaspeeaeteel A*
EVER TI FI oo I oan spins consnsgeeisciunsspsidqedvndadlbenbesithbaalpged N
Davidson: Wislitam FlOumnton,. “43... ..iisccccccecsssccccsvasscdbsccecsseceed AAF
ETS BR re Bo GD. 5 isccdscienscanasopsvphevoheensnaivgpelndenasti AAF
CGI Taree I «Iai inci cui ov edlinsicteucchncs shod eueesniesyriaudaeee \
Dewi Sate ee ines nicki den daesndectysghataueicbsnarauaaetoea A
DD eaS FOROS Bios snvesvcsscceshcaicdccinbasasesviveteifuneamendnile N
Devel, earl a er 8 FA oii csc hiindacd spcectototnt aetna A
Deter ERD | Sik. «canes ccentinvanj custtncasoeniathosieacemabelinnal \
Boke tan: | FR: a gio nai cdi pose scdssctinas tie cthcaavacgubea stad tpgseuapemmiol A*
Diilliots, : ECR E FPN dees cncinveseddsdccsede conesicbahinibuncbesesgutel AAF*
Ditiad:: COm RR ING, 5 SO nckdctstsinantcshee btindtleintlacttesea A
De Oi ee ga ioe catare danas ch lees sits ncscnpadeinnts atteavlins MC
Dion. Fra mhle Fea ihc cncecibbctacn vse chai desp aoc svediccadbticacsver enone A
Dit Ge, PaO ier ee i isc hivcesgnahancticistnddicknsctitadamsdpssabacnessell A
EG: TE Oi, RN edad sus rppiabthenidcecictbhncindensktovpsndindabivehecs N
Downie, Edward Roessler, °40......:..ccccccccscccsctcccccacssccsccascsoeseeed AAF*
Dre Ee ea ii chen cdc igetelaasensiab bAiisatpvhedeual AAF
Lhirttennn: Wal etal We, “Fok A ia ores ki seehi iced cccmesctvensSecisoecicun MC
Der eehe W ate SMI gE sskdn desc cedevateesn'udsOlbsAahivendinicendogs ots MC*

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

GRher ere Tih Sat 9D, i sciisscxccstsshsdsacadbnccd4spicsipeltiblecaeceed AAF
BOGI, FCATAAT <r PES aa cc cnn dete cciltin Ry adanntipano ines ticnavinvceeaetnnesval AAF
ere: Tene: Pim Ee: PAD a, ss issinuhdainissasnstivlanedibasepovingdld A
RES: Ve MAE RIOT, Pics Ahi cciitese cs tababn tics ict esccedtndenicnsienns MC
RG MENGES SN CT Us coin nadabndadancadiccsrdaipecsnbvhivapecianuiledees AAF
RGR, Pas SRS De ks rea rescues badeanbabeel AAF*
Se EP UAe, OM Olle. afi ak cits dus rich vteto jainns Baap ion pobeosdsuntoucaeoas N
Rr COUR Pa DOO aa aE le Soest AAF
SISSIES, TAREE MAME PIECE. ols cosscaatalvdusanwscbsd chest anovesacastenl lobed A
SEP ec AV EABCIEE Se ect datas tuctagb bennns sv pkikassoudeyihpeuniisicuaebjoainctl AAF*
Peter icare:: FG CLE CPW OIMIRG, Oe iinkesscdendiceasssphccedepvespocansecivenuioel N
A a i SONS ORS japan cd sands sha daipbdinadhessonnes bok wildeaneetuperiaad \
TONITE Oi Ne a a iL st satbsvemtidicapeeiie a A
RI Tare * Pe Nis ics, vale Spcuka kata ccdpbuts tes Gneestetclitie shdivigheotaasebeed A
POE rIR Camere Tie Ae A eS ik utsdecskatienchanieked AAF*
RO WR ONE I alneh gint hea vada dha doassachcianbibaupeanaivestepnedis N
Feddeman, Frederick Augustus, °40..............ccccccesesessesseseeeees AFS
UE Fe et INI la baceneiieis trdcshd sucess arodnnicen Giviuaddnincitsnieackeaid A
Pinklesteii,” Biarvits Arthur, 45 .0.0.. dec iiceisndsasticccgicsetsacsoccdsnes AAF
Fae RE = ne te i sk ual da tets sshaves Asdpsaetadunasaaibcahdebuseoveesinab te N
IG Or> TR tei ee ee si) re. tech csnckiedpembesdbadvaiwsckiabbine N
PRTC eer OIE 5 GS csctischinnsdesicksccticickndaseatlapessenctoens N*
Be I a i ao oe lid AAF*
ne cesdecdachiasepeuias otshciabaiaenee’ AAF
PR Re Ee a2, so tinction ape ecndai aap maooehiadbapalisenentse os N
FGOGREEE, TIMVIE We GRGEE, Fo iicisccccvciscettsiciausrsecassdedauevotg tonnes NAC
0 ORME ONE 2 MES iisccncncosahh ens abieccikansiesasecodsccnsael AAF
rere 7 OTN: IE | ductal oth atas dala’ deed onanlgnacuvinntaabiansl A
Porrentel, Villisi Tatasee G4 is oicick a cegei sc KccevcsBicctlascbensacecaees NAC
Pountain, Edmund.” MCASHSt, 2 Bb issiciisscinsccitvepssioincescisiadstosetoes A
Peneia |. Fred Carmel a tis sarin incsatsncnndiinpadiaviionuncibitpeiccadiitd AAF*
SR Tr OE NN AN a celery kecisnaua sche dtadadsisenes baaxanates MC
RIE Pick, ochngkavscthibccsetebcicabsCvae aise MC*
TOO eee: Fi AS eas isi isis icicccab ects bad o<tach oSinpatohabes A
DOG BN BE SINOT D0 ic cveiiniiansvacedb Sandeencdimianplagoruiele AAF
PF STECHON  eeeOE NICD: 8G ivi secensivdiccnsmssccksinckispincaeicoadauens N
Pees ee renee 4 i)... .cicageesencsareaocebbas poidsvcdicabackcosted AAF
See a eens ee BS, 55555 Siscondenbsenpinnchacouesueseudhadsiuccsviods N
Cae. See OO, 4B ions k a issupsciacsklendsecceniiinnss N*
Cian Somers ee Cerme. TP. D5. cs cick, oussvacacatnideascdocvat equates N*
Ce I las 2 ht SID 5. ss ivcaccnntalteasavbanc ebendeblgabadsthonsedes N
cURL, LORE Bee a! Ge ead, io cisiatedicssadscovbeskacGugaacéncvipnctiei N*
COer ER SP OM COGS Fa Feit ii cs veviccniniennscgucavnadoeees N
Cn CONNIE: © a oS rik ca stecdaannotes N
eseeaan. ~ VV Surman > Sl OUP OHO S "AG eit a nsisscodoneve conadbédeucbceosbactceaieth N
ams SCORN, BUN iis eat bic stn coctbacessageneckactnbitnd MC*
I 0 UNO <A hs sat cha RA alnincndibesenpadcapenticdandevanld N
Geiger, Robert Goodfellow, Jr., '36..........cccccceeeees A*
nT CO i wang Sabah N
eens. War reremeay” Fy TOW: B92: "ZY. cst chustidbcdadoncsicdecdndckasacentabicoinnl A
I 5 PRE ON i, sul seneeecaod AAF
Ro: “CRUE DEN ChAU ee Ae i alsa eveaansnnie ohoel A*
ment: 57 UNIROSS art a ae srs ciiee erie \
I ee Te a a ee a A
Semin Sar Nee SSCOUE, <4 Bs cited ip ticn tebe ansene toda btauhdibinensccdiins dusck abe A
CAA Ee TERCULES FE AO ns cteeadins a atbblehdcdliseceschietintenk N*
Givens, Ambrose Witherspoon,  °4Gi iii. .taivcdnsecnrpesspiccdocdinsccadscres N
Kaueecocic, BECrwin- Brace SO iii Seiten aicicehicn cans dgased MMS
Omen Or ae eS i nal swe nanancesnel A*
(co baree, «Cae SS a Se i ea A
Cabeesib era: TOneet TTR, ED 65 cnncehvcentaceseiiesuksctesnceeicccndibans N
CONTA. LPM ea ican docnbtitewocacsmene rh bce oie ddouaashnads eae ieeares A*
eee. Tien Ve eee Be I eit eo haces. schsicuatoanvndebeal MC*
OC eeeeeerennO AA TY tt os a cis N
GOOG Witt, , GOOT we TC CAG Fics Fo a prkcnsedednthecise. scaicciocgvicseidthennen N*
Gotedon: Lanrence  Eeaward,; Foi, . So aii. ceditecbies wsstascivesyscteacdeed AAF
Cea TRO h PONE Os sons ig cies decks ev cociedb deci tnclcckccdoea ane MC
COPS API UO WE cases ocinantescctied es ccepaitihits ss Messina toate AAF

[ 11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Chae G:< Reet aR 1S 8s 1a, si dais dn d5shd, epddaa da sda ee aetedanentoel AAF
Greener: - Jerome. Davids FG iis wesc ccsvneisd shlevssisdscdecints cnsscdecsducdcbas N
(Se eerret. Deere: eet OGscs Soka... eaeka chad dhedsoaled N
CS RCENE CE CURIAE, MIU i MAS ahs sesalsan cag ematig a senehacenebck dvedn Dak wantegubs pean cncendar ocd \
CEreatitie Gal Rigi 5B akan es ciabahakis tacavietnysdevittudacdesedccgettctawtl A
ETTEIa, “LOW TE URI: a hionte dep soctuish anchinaiedignjaweid dead edeagd AAF
CHOUSMAN,. FOR TE OM AGS sakiosipacnsciceabclanssdbacdanvcegsialeeacecd N
CSTOECEIE KTR HOR TUTE: 1 abet acharaot'nnp eadpddsedseste okadsbtnn sachin age N
Hahn, Louis Robert, Jr., Macias ide Past tdenk hetscedines can denhdssoV Gaia an inden N
REGR, SUN meRERINE GA ORN ONIN 2 es ico, 5 davis xs ede does sed caasbodd Wacbilecnniaandtead CG
Frevmsseon,. Fred Piadley, 38,52 cotscstuatevcnsincdetsanuitdsdacaqas adage N*
EESTROE SOROS Bo aie sic rails adshedtdeae ons baa cocaabbld deelh obebedet N*
Ramee: Deer h CERN Gs, HO pe iiiaciccccerigdssannccsvekiunssieccHlonssvvacgc weaned AAF
Rains 3 Cian: FETS FA rine nc ceg bavendiadbanenanes dddbwesndes iutouicciseieced A*
POH TARETT EiRB iy Gah ccmtecy bekclvenn tbat; Napanaeetachdh sb Asacere MC
EMSRS CI: FT CC KURU” iis tas ci vesehanncesevcsotieaVabanensevecebers CG
ER Tees, > CMRELUSIL* EONORA ME estas dace ji gd Paduca deadondvas pr etaverpstaabeaveistagd AAF
Perr Oil: Fear eOe CIE FE viii vacaes coae-cdavdiavsienestipblavievteassoa’ AAF
PRGi res EWG 0 OBIE, | FO, | Bes cncnpocisdensocdvecncwduscdivcecdtnonasiace’ AAF
UAE... LQDEKUR MIOEIMDIRAY, NIB Taa cit ova scusthqeovoeadecdetonatenesovadteomantabemieie A
SReReae LAURIN MAMPUNEL? SEP cl dota, cance siigiedch Aleanechossedsetavbacenebtioss N*
ER TRON Ai, °F Ua ee denn shai danhienete dechheddoe Ad peal lands onaudodten N*
PL metee, TRarer re COBO GO ic ecto icritnsceiccsendvbots bagsastencbohaatebeecs N
FR RUETICME: AS CUMIN TI EDSTIOPE, © BA iciigip ces ca fasseas Fe adesecdce cndineeorsctauvere A*
FR Fe USO: SOUT <a Di wlio sa: cincccioiaet avy icine cbecnbcwenhnsesnccdeebanae AAF
FEE I eR, aie vacichs dmcacvtslisivene Sled goectavs cbGetabdicns- counted A AF
Maven, Richard Catia. Abie eh icv N
FP POT, Fete WLC EMO: atau iy ch serch beshey. cect dacedtccsaednonocenee MMS
SRERECOIS EMER AAV SOOUE, 5 Betis bichide fis cdecdedsvkcsococscccseeees N*
Fleineckte, (sesta ve. Tweety AAs cinsccetsssceccetiveSetaieosesscccctsckoccccd AAF
PRESS, Tre. Pare PRIN dal son thi ecantiducthhicerense. Ridageaccsdete NAC
Hempel: : Jolin, CHLIsteaner; -JFiicg Se eiwisccideescs Necacssieccesesqecteccad AAF
EGE OTICI, TOL F< SOc ontttshiisssccecdacetedaivcadusdsrddodicchitapabeod A*
RESUS, Use: . EECA a a enced core scsv0kns cocaine deny dp sctadieeicdsoneed A
Saas Ce CO NE ete BE te aM sede vos Vala icis cess sch> cancndadiidia Caedp sogntaay bn N*
Fay ety FA pelts Penis wvallasdeedecnscacvcas sesisiacdandiasbadandgawesbinres A*
FOTEE, DE CRI OO es nies ccabsi cscs Seed\ Seacdbstetbcodedanbdauabeaten N*
FA AEC AR OCR. ar Eg Rais ws dace abisedscicbidecchesteiaptius ahsidaiabiai etd A
PROG Fh RUB IIG RE cc aot ond ae cscs ediaidetdLabaveciubsteeivterccnnnien’ AAF
PRs Gia, DE BICCITes DECIR, 49... hicpiedek Li ccececuccsegavecibensbecncguceaatl AAF
RLQOR ADO TROT PT eo MN ccs <bicsauo cd eotecoadbvidadwotanvaucouse’ N
PROOG, CHENOA BeOS Ts 44a is tec Nacins iycsanataashscasoisddubaseons MC
PEO 2: VE RITA AIRS ONOR,, 5 Per itedas cist ce <b clecabsiictensrevbetduasasben A
ErOrtaa: Wise Actin: Pees oP iiss ceiiiciiniehiacd pp iidteaes A
SE ee AO CREE: AP VORID,. - U e lakes ip digesta guts ui jaigbascvescvenssassaeeeniel A*
SR LTRS) Eas Eas 5s ah cs eth oth Aoctaachodpemcadddsuitycsbivensecsdiclbas tl N
Ra eereee: Dl ar With TMM Fa sacics sone lecdips tnlnsas conkovessvedieendsanpocddbocsl A*
Frummers Marvin? Pitman. "25... icici sectiinciisckstbaekidsaccskedt NAC*
Pee iatowys, ... Fo ware seeceths Pia, isch cceecccandesdaveceicsaccvcus MC
Fe ae 564d Wr INl, ARM I ia bids adds dyics caucdbucciad, cedbeadesgensccotuel A*
Ee NEON, > SPOTL SORURRNINE Bik csp docu asdcduds S0ddeseckeseducbedck tonh andes coahtaal N
Frutcheson,: Jaires  REOrrisOny 05 Gains iiciiei i Saasccapiccseadse stew N
PAGtChesOn. ROMS. PIMC: TEs BP iiks cc iieccccaceecieelavccesesscecoeasenied A
DEEL PRNORAMRNL SUG AOUNINOE BUCO ME sani sinks dsans eva sods cok jpannstiubetabeabapiaole N*
FPR + Crate EC TOMAMIe KK, Filgs Gdsileiscchicebandaiiantciccipcosecusestacetoarvhinlcceed A*
Prong: ReDeek: SIMMOY, | Oa iiss dickcasothisitisavnatna ee iadbek MC
TREO. AO UEEe  SEMROMS  . Ie ccccasd Acs ebevbarileapiccckaha ass tinachasgonviesied N*
FEGREOE, RG OE ts GWE, aD aracivien a tiiolpssic Uidtvbn nach tavbodavendenacecet N
FUMICR> *SeOOT We: V¥ MMOs LEAs «A Ocicasvenavenekeclaceadhenbch ieemminbachasaaivand A
SORTS FOUR | FRIGIAS EF acc icistinicoadh edskicacebada vi wicassiswuediicovacivaas N
FOMRIG. TRACR LITMAN eats isicc ca kchaeka ipsa kussbot ea iaseec ea sekesidctall AAF
TOMSPEL STNG LOD: AIDEN, AF Picnics, sescte'si chodudecechdbuamacadseedeadectvGedioan N
Sapesies  memeath CE Ee AD a ihe, c urna recaitbarcaumleahgbiecesecad dansk MC*
JOumeem, - mschiard :Chddovie ki: "AS. cciiiscscaseivass eiacsad eens eccanginsche N
PORIRLE, -APAG | CRASS SE sisscacs snes opeekphastolch own teukssadatetes AAF
TRPEMR UCU CU NEEE Bo WEI Bai os Sncchyndedsicckalsstele cue nsteisebioesbnnsielicsl AAF
POOR Fe EE Fascias ces tik bocbseisdeepiteedicccpetdecancieBuitecckaeass N*
POEs ORES Se | 6 anne Poosidacdocsandends Xa) canksisceacd ankes malies AAF

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kaylor,; Omer-Thomas, Jr, )’ AS scicisiesseidsiccasbesheenccteceaeytvelencacs N
Olt: VV Mien Fokin 45. vciceincviinncinsnsethccdedindteheaenint ates A
eller® Fiesty LAVOE, . "AG c.. ccccceradicoinssphtnneceecionsa een take NAC
Rely, John Jackson, 11L,'46.... sisi eoctaeee te N
Rempton, Melvin Horton, °32. sisccccsscsoundtsrvasecsasctabicianeatee der AAF
KReanan, Alired : Leland, 4G iscccesd:initiiscedi dha eaten eed A
Kerr, George Crawiord, .'39. .....:..:ccisssscovcucesspaleirereaniavadetennctass \
Revs, .Pieraon Douglas, *39.....ciuswesscsscsisapvensi ened A
Riioart, Maurice Teaac, .’44,.......<csecccdentsteauci ieee Esa, N
Kibler, Franks McChintic; ’3S8....003..tastissdgtd eee A*
Kibler,: Thomas: Latimer, Jr., °38..:.:...omititaese ieee AAF
Kiend!, Frederick William, Jr., °45:...w3..aiianeaenoes. NAC
Kamball,Rithard Adair, ’49..i..s.cscscssssulds eae ins: N
King, James Lynwood, .°43...0:<..csccicisocdeliattelpani an eantion nado A
Kiser, Henry Jefferson; Jr., °41....cic.cscccksslse peel AAF
Khefoth, William Ernest, °34......:uscscocssssvanctsvtentaamniiaseiessesctacd A
KReraises, Arthur. Harem, °31......:..cc,ccssccosntgissineeeennnteaaetce La A
Kfraueman, William Ralph, °44.....0:...scccclasseasesteeeeteatistla tetwdaces oud A
Lambeth, Robert Bolling, °36..$i:....csiii ace alee N*
Landrum, Charles Milton, °411..... ci. cccccetis tae aictlices tend A
Lene, Allie Hartsford, °43....3::..00:.:icctil see nes ake MC
Latsen, James Charles, °41....<......:.:cccccedecssioeteh ennai AAF
Latture, William Edward, °47....:,iccau eee: N
Laughlin, Harold Willard, ’43.;..0:..:c:cicacmaneeei ie tick NAC
Lawrence, Edmund Pond, °44:..iid.isaeeeces NAC
Lawrence, Robert Morris, °42.;...:cciss-scisad eae aiti ces AAF*
PCO, TRONTY, © °Z6....cecisccuccescouccesseessudspeseneaaaiamaeaannn Iams nalnel alll aoe A*
Lee Walter Howell, °45.......::.-<cesheuscuicsscueeeeaeaibinustea ce AAF
Lewis, Sydney, 740 ....6.2c......;.cacecossv apap ano lbestabcteeesed A
Lindsay, William Webster, °45...:c¢icpe cee scat cetesadesieed A
Lockett, Samuel Hobart, Ji, "AG ccc iets tase eecuvel A
Loeffier, Frederick Pembroke, ’46iii:c Astiembestireatvivesivecnéesstce N
Long, Louis E.,. Jr.,.°39..:..i:ciusbecssscnseeenen eee atcand AAF*
Long Ray mond Gordon, °43....c.cccssicisie tscedeeeneeiettie ctctates.tes N*
Long,- William Taylor;. ’37 cisacsaune 0 ee A*
Longacre, Charles des i. soccnecascseb'desacedhseuGhehenanmRUNenConetessubwied AAF
Longan, William J., °41.......::.cssssshaciistesaneeeen ina eneeera anes sbaaswcebed A
Lowrie, Charles uae "39... .cccéadecutah chee Meds asiedocsceed A
Lowry, Francis William, °43..csiscsccdes te eeatctssess. MC
Lykes, Dick Mayo, '45.......:.::ccctscassseshl casein naan Lend cose. 0000 N
Lynch, Ernest Carlyle, Jr., °32.... aes ts)... N*
McAlister, Stuart. Allan; ’45..c:ccG iscscs cue eeeE beeectts sckbaceeces eee N
McCarthy, L,. L,., ’29.......:c:ccosscscsssubinahs bens ieaananEIEEINININNE tetaati gs cds... N
McCauley, James Elliott Hubbell, 45.000.................0ccscssssseeeed AAF
McClintock, David Dodge, ’45j:ijiiiccscte tee enneeaietetinhicessecs.0 N
McCormick, John Newton; °44 scien eeeeeetestaeea dt peo antys.- MC
McCown, James Samuel, 745 js.jcicecsee ee es acne. J A
McCown, John Graham, 40 .jcicis eats chose. ced A
McCoy, Richard, °40::......:d:cccecscsmbabeneeeeeee ao naiy eed AAF*
McCulloch, Hugh, Jr., °42.c::scccasentsds seinen cisorses 50d A
McDavid, William Duncan, :’SD.ssisisei nites eee ediarasite dices... N*
McDonough, William Charles, “Q2iisiisccreesteiecttetetesc Bah ocececceJ A
McGraw, William Charles, Jr., Bg. Fea Dy 2 a a MC
McHenry, Edgar Taylor, Jr.,725 cccnncpeee tent ahars cro scccese. A*
McIndoe, William, Jr., “@4.cicsisasdeass een aneeMib Neds cts cnseeec0..... N
McKee, Myron James, Jr. "40 csccsssterscsb ean tet iatss tte essseeacese..... N
McKelway, William Prentiss, “40s cccccscsseeietitrissccssscicccseess.... N
McKinnon, Robert. Williath, “Goin cacti teat cde ceciccccccsc cece J A
McLaren, Walter, J 1,’ ’4tscccccecsethatse Etta eh sco cccenseee. N
McLeod, Elver Webster, Ji., Sacssseeeeeeeeee te eenitb ash occccccceees. N
McMath, Joe Stuart, 7°24 icc: -csiisoncscssctes ee eeenee Man enO tte Nay dcbice.cccsc00e. N*
McMinn, Fraser Kingston, *46 2 MC
McNeel, John Osborn, ‘Si iiccsssustecnsseteattsthetavenscvcessessccesccccccees: A*
McWa ne, Frederick William, JF., “SG .s..ccssscssdeccccc..s....... ccc cccccccees A
MacCachran, Robert Francis, es DEE eos o se sa sccccese J A
Machell, David Not thugaiy 7acccsceeti a teea taste rte thnsee sce ccesscc.0J A AF
Mahoney, James Dodd, ’26....00...0.0...sccccosssssesssccsesecccessessesceceseseed A*
Maish, Alexander MAGrtiaiy ee rtitttttbetatatebishstnccsccccccecccccssccccsccee J A

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Wh She Teta PO Wy WORN" TO occas cack ce oes ccs sotandctdanositejebesbteenaaptan A
DEGRA, SPSS TURIN TOSS. SB cas chide dates vhs ininchs chk andbuaekasupsvunaeefetaand A*
DERE STO CIn. FRU gS ods cic on ort cathe tA ckdania tanec vdedicheharetliins N
MONET CIG; EMOTO GE TV CMOCICI, | OG aside ca jcajnacedecet ve \cetunedourtesinessehs N
REAP TE | VERA STE cP 5 Sh seccccphinitsp civacecyndevstucinasersacbeed AAF
Maities: Te veeett: FATMAGN OR 6 Si ses cecestccsnyccrcctcelSscckeavcippatitehecakhickane N
Martin, Harry Leighton, NE: Aisa ks abl te beh waghaadire- oohsamiamiifes donde AAF
Derbi ie: TAR BRS are, Sin dis nds tondy tan sepaseDenchduass »ponbnseaavdccncebanas A
Martin. Theodore Brélaterd, "4656 iisiisssciciccisceesacesebcccseuassesseckivnes N
Baik, Fo Geaase ey FSO Fe ik orecsdk Ni ccoes seovsQoeiai ova cncdshiaadiedeignyed AAF
Be eh Raae: WA re MEPIS Bs ehh desman cnasthcdhai Asche acecascntheb eateeutighiscavies N*
Mayo, Cass Allen, Jr., CC eivashasikie shies tadcbitgrishas seeodebbnstcleas tsnivadas dabtioa A
DEV, PRACT Pe NRE. Oi Rasa coecstidch dcscdsa Wntotanh cccveics dn ctsauiasbuomscbo AAF
i iia} ec ee BOI. hed Cictice saekin® intesbatadaas bacon’ N*
Mend, Cm een Peer Fir OG oe oiivcvcicsopncinicavilicpiocdesccstbiautanaece N
DE BOIE: TCE), i Ghacinas scagescukessscadedga aoc sncmciveuntaasieacthbektesdees N
BE CE MR Se a ho ook co arses Gs vathedpchsssohdeeabincte sha deities MC
RA CCITT Rte car a Lk ids aude se eockcantnl babes redalineaba A
ME CSET! TRIES TIEN, Oa bine aoe sé Ticeks nes Gobad og his alicia sadam hddoaheatos A
IM CRED IES, See ee ah acs ike Scdevctnncolcdasbucadoyacunsdocebuse MC
MF Or: AUPE Are PARTIR 5 atv daca nb kadioe be banish an sseioeacedaancd sdapecBeotvassiostas N*
Michaux, Alexander Ludlam, Jr, °44is..sc.ccclicckessscisescesccssessvedes MC
M ilawe, Chemo eianite Tees, OG, Sibi lk apcced tence j saevubicsaatcdacgerents N*
M sini. ‘Nerrer€ ie mais < 20s 555, is. ccd cipudatitaa, dont oan ded AAF
Mier, Almion Nevory 39." Alike, siiscn dine ch tases baie ieneseicees CG
Milter.) Peancia Pr reeng 71a icin o.. iasiesnb db watdchtaden Subonduaniie A*
Ree, Late Cur Sach iSite thd SR iiscarniceca sada ann A
Be ie Pree WR nOre Fic eck cress iek oa: Soatopaa led Sedaenibebadeadenes MC
DTS, OV TASTE Fe ORE gg Ye Baas bodcsiicans sacchngnosevicterckasghGbaiteckiedkadiita N
Mish, Ropert: Warren Flow es: 1055” 406. cassis scteessticesaesveipcacas dad AAF
Mitchell Milton Fe arers iii sdieinciisiccopecanssistesecctstatsstudoadacsvial AAF*
Mizell, “RODOr Ces Bal etcrdec Bhatti dsc snhee Aichetasnaioiencnate A
Motfett: Weiliawus: Franc. Fie iis icietiidi isi cutee CG*
M Side: WEG e it FSF ai cakes rad sicdiciavippete nis es uv id dp 3 cago teeacbasaaies A
Moore, George Walker St. Clair, 46..........00:..ccccccccccccccccccsccooscsses N
ME ORES - PUBIC WV TO iain bis saves Sesccoesncaavaseckocrctngastechseaen A*
Mi GORE, ROWGEE Wr PONE EE. Miia ste cas, teiedbbeopiisvhescdtacincdeccledicensbugsheginds N
RE CORES WV SIAL BIE OT, iS Nica cabs cad bacsauiibeecsaoscvntnth ene0db ives dapapiaatl N
We OR UN Fe ae ANE gis cece vcs skbe has sy ckcee cdbastecis des ceuccens betaine A
Moretand: ati’ T nom ee B70 os Boone Ore iti ok, hot msecentes N*
M oreraeys Fiart OH A POOPRIG aa ih canna Ras sssbieddens Cikiadatsdhishvicelinvcessceed A
Mi Ostia, FARES Seta es crinosnn bin achesxceacbenind cs tncaaesdbs dated cskGnedekase N
M OFFis;. CATAL F OME. ea iicninitiatieyesboediudsg tots beenchcaodoncd eavae A
M onrisGremw are Ce Sara ics ea ess Bk ass ess oecons cabiapnenbba N
M otrow; Ruamelh: Ciiivet ys: okie hoteiccdi ate cadtaacahil Anse ecdelaena N*
M OB1Sy, FRTere We TEMPE Sale cctiens vcpide sascha oattenar ca iichpacugebdaeaqnies N
Mouser, Gormet FRO B0 FES losses ec dais duditasig tie inieonijeatestedeeeaanae N
MSOF. Fa AI Oa dseccdayicdp vet dtc thc Wicbigkstcneaiihe. as dies eon N
M owns... Vu teen, COOP WT, 76S og. oi sais sk csscins paacarnse cue banssteteaebnia N
M Hon; DaGit FAG 7 BG iced isnt concvekasscciassiecssesecusbga MNEs aeations N
Mi corrals, FE Comet a! Givin vekhp te vcove cel daéahbehocsdicssnccsehsbsusdbeodpessphotedeterd A
M sper, Creel. We IEIMMEI tt «onside dig dscscupetadeincdgdvvadbiubal hacmbaedgate N
M vers: ACOree GOOG, FE, 8 ec incctviisctcasgevuiscns Accteipahednigny eae N*
Mey ein GeOree 5 Te ai ceessres eadioCcttedinnia gli Nerattintccbgtel AAF
M vere; Wei CePeets  Teatite, Bene scscciescecitiovecpeasnsuiss thideheesstddccanelpoes A
Nabors, Oe PtmRte 2k) tiveciicnsdecechouedocvoisseQiveetabignaiaae N*
Nason, : RODGPE ie thee ie vivckatcocekccccavictactpancaseAcneboobuatesacesbibeeckelsian N*
N cechligun, = WW eileen Terr, - S951. sactececsiccecsecchactebadivesatanndoel A*
Neidecicer: [chats Serpette 60 oisivscisiseiccscescs Ud ecth atcha dliceinotipockoe MC
Ni el Seath:: ME CPS RRR I ic opi ac cscs: sctegehinhnsacdpsebenbadas debe ivcmabedioe MC
Newcomnh,. E vereth Weiter, big Beidaadelsbesscsecccoscdennannobonccecbsdiaiond A
NeweGini lh; NGlsorh: Bete 9. vevctessnbddccdsics eccksesdeasginsiihoshsousdonbenes N
N ewanra tis: Givens 200 eit far hos ds cian sous atvbeigennvdan savilidbaoenescouseclin’ A
Nichols: FG waee Eire Ceianicite chen tesiasdiapthavectchstiavdsnpadidineustyceebenund A*
Noble. Glad Wyn. Kise Ba iciatd ids wackentnntiocncstvavnsauaceddotciaed’ CG
N Gein sh WV TERI Ps, Aaa scstnsssagh onesie tiantthias ph diconeasclVendocseeoatos NAC
Norman, Raymond: Eugene, "4S sci. .iiscisevecsaccccestecsotcsevesidseosetves NAC
N Grits, RODELC TET WOOG, FOiccoisstlisccAbcodahid cecbiiebiinich esd coin N

Name and Class Branch of Service

Wi WOSD Os, FECT PA ii ssi, civakgnbhssadadiapyientccadiallpeeaiaastae geet N
Ceents. Vi etltathy CRC 8. 5 OEE Ae ss vicks-onteneceeardnerdheririns oie MC
Chpryan. award Fatmeer eid, “44 o2iicinsssetdaitiiivdcototasttaonl AAF
SGOT TOATE FA MIRIRE LOD innkencddosaseupcenchp nkaveaavaidebdiediatinstinetted A*
CPST, V¥ iat “Cat i "GG ci cniiccsoccde ccnsbdivsdigvn tceseqes cp escepes Aeoebeieal N
CPE. TGA Pi Fo cn erekicscchisieihdas Oeil ade ncAiacbanisvanonvetugihteaa N
SRS FADE Te TA CGOO. Aiea: = Satadsrcaten henchdaenblehennecaphagieotnsheeteaian N
CFE, > PURUNN RG. eR soi tincacdcsscbtustadsvannccshssAabe kalashi suri db acdowbansavaniia’ A
COBDUNEM. PROLIORE TICOLL, > hidies o0r6 So cn ricecasets Aicigsesibvutelesactocertssiael AAF
(Jeter, (3 Oli See BR iid GE eiivatdecl a veastisaqenspactngntalea’ A
SPU COE ME TIGL iss Ia Ocak hgdeddoccndhdct scisickadinatcponedssuhuback dbtbentuniten A*
Pace, Fred Coltedge. "Wliased tiki didabinigstic Nike Roimibekislendya thokdpiced each mies N*

UN WV Bate CRATES. * SD, <sicise nie winiscckpeh stich hob taplicngnte ech obbaddaigions phone N*
PAGING UMD SRO UPON . "OEE ok. . ccs sank chdliidsNannddddcqucbades svete chs nagrasses N
Paricerean, Willem Preancia. Fis aire ices ccdsepscmaciinsncensdastanens A*
ee Ser SO POE, SE. |S 1, <n. gs canons append sbsoblnei al puinihayins Adiaiie MC
A, SI Be Bites) osisevechseeccbp Ricesde coehec math bei otanics+s cantidee’ A*
PEEP Tees “Fee Fee 5 co davénnasiacpkybvaspngvdsmapngthepuiconearadewnceipenel AAF
Bee. Cece Pere ONG a. oa. diss aiisidideteabeotpaeaibabetn: NAC
Wr PRREEI RU Gs FE CE ME CRUE ai is cccdcsksinsivneshassessneiotecnizck besdintenintvcesebid N*
PRCT BE SEMI TION, Obs ilcccahicdevccnsnonadsshsdcetebdatibdeaeasesceiy MC*
ICU, MERCURE MIN 7 Why: deh nnn nitgn skcdsccn nib ndesudodgan therein cduodeatael A
Pata CMT LOS FR PIMEL, AE Ribcs viedo tvasnccconancpiaaahe ned basietendionela cued AAF*
RE FA EE PR TRIIEIRS | inks bac ccdnkat sy onbcnchadbudcouaol asksed tape vacaheel A*
PR FORE FUN Aso kinins in cSt cusedabstaibochs, ce seadlndaepudeaeieedectedl A
POR OR RIOT THON onc iiicdsstsssediansthsaneloodediactgrceohsidid aa eaaedinds N
SUVNE TRON EE Pu GIROOEE Oo a cadicnc Giese sscdaoandhdllip cosBeanntensthstdvuimetebounaed A
EEG. FROW Seo ORE, Ms, 5. san dpsiechotecntetininbebvecanicob dmmtchscniooceieal A
OL ETUC SSMEEIUD, 2 Ear, SPOIL sts ctina dasalmcashpedeen sd venpAdhbe stank qn dasapeiehens N*
eens Me CMON Le OOT ees Gen. ic issoutsotetaaliasasdacskorieouavduebtanted nbieles N
Sonne: PSTN IIS PEROT Ge. ORL. de id aid inccickriocseadanes a hcalin aaenenbae NAC
PGs BESO MORRO is asbscdadcoesatacennncssndstgntebceadhorthsas dived AAF
NE RON BE ooo ccs ss cnceccsensadsponmelusortbenias econ duende batonnnotebb eins A
FR SOO SCO Why 2 lasik e oko cactoavbtincdd icceiidoveviges Uhosveadpasensheseabna’s A
BOMIER EE FE RN A505 25s SUA, .< 500s cabbdthes n> oudcliceiens ehotasaisetebvceaitedenies N
SRE SM, OG Fc, wuss, ocss covtuch es kates Sibentahabalcebathvautalaas N
Pe, Pe PIO: MET. cccanssoch uh okdcveeadhahsdublosteekivijanedail A
OMG SU, TEER ad oik< con octahins vib ubcnads plsctodel cad(adpuivicncnmasubes N
SEOs OSD RINE: ORI. - 5... cobs sida dag th bdenans My piesabies oqohind hiets A
SCONTNOT A D0 RE POM SEUR 59. ik... scciths dupadie cabs tadchedgamsacegsuasecRbsopa A
PC CRORIN: SCRTE PO CIUI Ry ctl occ ccc hucnphadhsin sac vosscdebdabgovagssecudabiotocs A
Reynolds, Watkins Wendell, Jr., °45.............ccccccssscssssssseesseed \AF
Be raeee vee Comat EY ait. ses sccdock castninsosetasenetsicgs AAF
Pent: Robert: Witsoe s eo o.cisk-stdidadocscacckoe donc vecadius N
Me, SOT EIM TS WCET, issu. ty baesbecd TMM setatht baa deth ash chsshes sce bcenbasioesa A
SRR, 0 5, aOR ON oi UM eben capintilins so cuvebetecedbabaate N*
Dp SOON A laa nc ee Lia CG
Robb, Edwin Flemming, If. Bi Aaa abike ed sk ctiwcatch ied NAC
POD OLCR LAN DET JONI... JT, Sis sriscoinlem me iainbiviséstsacesbeesteamits A
PRCOED,, DUDE CE © G45 ics cohén ocewcvenea basta bee nia sats bop vpseeusn¥ednvansdeadtes N
ee TOME LANC1S,. J, 44 aos cicAccae irra eens a seh sk onhendancteite MC
Brees” EF arecay -VV Atti CON; AO csc cks tal suatbeouitidecds acedsiceseons NAC*
BURR, GBF ICD  Drter Oh, RG sii ckackss Ged rach cabo vas ndaes sc cust dbieate N
Supreme warmetrer’ Ie. “OG ile eee ee ee ae NAC
Rowe, Richard J., 45 sid Porsades pdiean linn Lip ritdaadigtaabPed Dares ted take ch aaoped AAF
SERPS, RAMAMED BSP OKWU Ih.“ MOUL. «vl ss coinndch diane th th cabedaedbbdnkebtcbcnaahanshovivies A
PIRES FOUN SL CONTRA TAY pasa Se ansena tiie csastah decgtlnncdubegdudeescbetsdsyasnonouecd A
eer. Se TURE SATURN A is Ai haki cen h dddcpbdobassiiticles desoconesccinoainal A
PRUNES se tired. BA ONE .- IML 2k. cian asidbadadblivasnpcvandabeestes ces cccuien N*
BONA L,  TERVAROOG, Thos | Maksatdessdechere oon che ektbabnadecs sheds idiighsakosevicaednbianl A
Meerell.; Robert. Mastere, 76 gies ieinssssic.d. da NAC*
PELs: CREOLE - VVcx FS dasha Kian sb acthon bd evade uandecss we ianasidcobisecdedeakbas N*
ee TOROS Fite a ieee ahha lB oud din apelin abd A
Baa, romerick -Caritoe. 463s cid canalaikevsscecthvooicuaiuud N
SUMMMUETAND, PRUURES. FU OTIAOTE ES icin caiScesechbastecidnban cs esscenespivevibtenss hint A
SRG: SCRUROE OTS SSP iris n.d cs ab nG ech cdbcig hy cusped nat ublddle besa adcodGadional A*
meee, Seward Flower’. 94S. oiscissadisadcgecvevitast canecactcacvertcactinellbea A
ROTC. SHOU DORE TEMUMINE, “SU sica Seicis att aeah noah otis dihidiadeoese AAF

[ 13 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Sei tin tha Come VG LESMAEMA, «Oli in vanckcecsunnovsagihaeddecebaaamngobnsstepnabedints N*
Sthoek, -Chnpves Constetiatis Fi AS. ccc edigatschcecesteecsoncpdocctecgeal A*
SOT Gt, SECURE TIERS 21 EW, id Soveesd gethitvsencctagascatyctbcbondicdenedveas N
SICUINT CRE, PEO WEL MEAL COG. > ai isn shoes cccbccaddecczenbadusbesvsinsdacvadenoens N*
SCUMICIIET GS TIE DO RONIEE. ge Oesal sunsarcuvensscarcasdenstducncchinvencptnaiteeioeoeed A
CRITI RE RE ALTL ESOMOMD DBO. cieicdss cekaccvsveseveuscdbepePidvcahiobsGesdcocboaes NAC
SSOCEE, RRUISOR. GOs Bias AD, sicbicbidcss tccctiaccs sap tansptaccuibabdesdcaul alee vitateovss A
OR MeN RT a sete beinennieied A
ORIG PF Ma: STI FP, AS, (ii cpsicesctshs aconsp torte vesvbcndinshdahpionen N
era. Tete Te COG OE siens sce Ri capiitvamnscbbesehssansih inn piekacpebend \
SOMGCRENE LONE WERENT" 00 irs ths scp aicddensthcberseeibiivlecssrvel AAF* *#*
URC" DEIR so ais acatciem sa penchewidie ce daune denen eaians N*
ST SMNNTR Bek CRETE OID da cntisenitdsuarentgeseanemst Fouseceaeienoeell AAF
PTR TRITS... VV Salted CRI "Aiur ine sccoicgasdoveresshedictariesblidecitbovcetbaed AAF
SPAN A APNE ON ., “MN ceckscuctdstnsesooiedechesdiuecboutinecessosebbeneal AAF
ES As TORE IE cs Mini cticidanedpiierpbeciscncsiacebeven qbanvedtcneduospaveceiae N
OMAN A RAS RS Ih ori sh. cis sons teat nsscacbondoeseupeieborescodoonsdenel AAF
eR ir SURI A ZI BSc dencas inka cachoenesorsivbytoesockabinchestscutiiiouine N
Seeeenea ta: PAMIRL: Se OOOO ANE, 5.15 6, i sndavstevind pevadeicnsestbap cent canceliberaen A
SN SOE el nein cadtihcenn dearest dadvsceabobeseptes uel A
Semen. Waneeee ARRON PEARS. occcsdcdscinsviccdhcahteueskanentadehnhoeen MMS
Smith, David Hamilton, ny EE o ale ahaa: Ganck rash Cicttuale eebese tana N
arrels FL Meee Catt T2594 i ieiciiccccccc stich cinsevnsodtcchtvoainuad MC*
SOUINNEN URE PRRUUNNE, “72ND Cad ches dicchvdywivisirins cacankocninches vets opbebonges MASMEAN A*
SORT Cis NS oe a aad ica vaicscnisctdcs pin dencecbcarcbgsaeaveiebal A
Sree a POU RMRO RDG S10. sadsscsinsn-kiscchesthasdacsnasonch-«dhpunmearad N
etiithe ce Maca: Soba SMe a. . sviks sass iutiscedein i kscnt tun tanekagth Hhovseccenandaes N
SSRIVEETEL DCCC: BORON ek, Sic nits paicchanindebts sudenthatybibeakoore oqctenral AAF
SRUSAUTLS SoU CMRIIGD BOR COT aii k a ie til ceis satel a waciiycscemsipbocscobee A
SURE ERM WUk 1k PORIEN UIE TOR 50 5 Ci ecadsls th bhihgatenacbadvoddapndedbunnsccocsped AAF
Saree ERAS G BE oF eek hic biaigh) ns sch cnnidus engs tahivebeaphqcessscceevnasncouitel A*
Sarre sR ECR OO aes cihiaes et ccuadia sh ew splaemlohnosucasebel AAF*
te 7: WA AUER <UNIINS Atai iii vailcaitinaasaatcsessodnrachekes cdnaicadaheipebenbhanesedd A
Spenates, Luther Gwe, FE. "ZA iiieccscssicreescovsdovassoveevucwassseed A*
SANE, DOME 1 Bik is istidediead oles. <ddditgondhversioisnguesrinvidbapactceveiill AAF*
EE EIT RE EAM OF eich s sik tu cconccsnsstvesvnestuidinataawlcanetentille N*
SernanGe Os Sr AON A aA... caveccivncnscacchotehinsdgebsbadnetessecbocien NAC
SURE FOUUIE: COMIN OUTS a TEA, SDeosecccccnscedscccedsehsossceavectstensantead AAF
Soceees Tatts TR A ic cis oxnn Saab cdacacbabectbschbakssnaeiinibaenphgbaiebeds N
CROs, FU ee eI tn wi ciccnitadeckthicevethuo dupes ccdebs RCAF* **
BEOCLOLE, WV Pilea NNN, FAG orcs cock ptatesaseceinsccvktvicossecchoete AAF
SURLEN, SCANNED CMM TOs WO oe. cd ap ovecvcctedebunesncsededsowdabecaivansntad AAF
ee CIE BR, I odo saab revise chnidodaancovsipactebeel AAF
ihe. Cree FEE, A aires hsctebesocesucecsevecscnveieptecedbecensedeat N
enact Gry: Bi ORT So isis casas cckak ccessccccivccecconcessconseyasiqponco sen N
SRMNERS DUR OPOO TR: POTTING i ba Srcns acs cceckiosconsvapeeisdctaccacssonsuctthabes N*
SOREN Bh OVP OURCO Sore Ls Th ri; naddasersnds od ondebdah evtanvanaciadbanidibaneh N
SOR Ree;, “Sa tem LOey SPE RARMI had cssvisnisdecacedds shddicerecrdatndgudedshoduvnecmsiind N*

eee LOD PUIG, BES 0 dics sick ,hspcesancvedesnaseenecdonsyelcocunies N*
Seas Te ally: CIM Peedi tachas cede s cinuscecvecsindcaveteahstegassesteci A AF
EEE, TC OE eI FE ian csninncosiesvciecscsounscbccdbihegh dchbesesutall AAF
SMe OFSE, VV TeR VE SOO 1 ek Fenn ogsinccicccnscasactsaysscesasuonsiateds A
AE) 5 OUT I, a tinsslds sedaccchschesdochascacbscaiadincis dvateaagesqcianlll A
Sele EAMETS FPORUG Beis | Ge iccpsivhonrihc lies caindacuntciebaeetn A
PROLOG OE Bis iis cctbbatinben venue tntcibhssagh foc cath tiasvoeitiosajassinged AAF
ERTL AOE ONG. iis thir ibinidiowinnichitiniined AAF
TRG, TRODCLE SARIOD: SUM pina dads cc. sah scchteatodaesistent Acchtaaeceainagacnetes N
Dey, FROTRCO TIES BESs Ops cadewcdsiiscadidaayiouscetnticdtlisebiaiiestaneia N
EAD, TR RUT Dia, CR tarngigassiinsters Shdichankavintcinicapmmoapenigaiiod AAF*
SES, TUTE “OWA, - BO cases cicccvbetvivgseieccecubsesedicsiceces dad AAF
EG, ATOM SEO Bhs a veda Sexi cocopcionsncne als ddsveseuetehhiWusiecbiccahane N*
PE, FECT FES AS oshkdiceyitiintaciad pide niimtotahibcresid amma A
7 ee, JAMS: TO WEKE, "RO icisiessi aici Skid aniaiean A
ST MOMmSOM, Atsmusts POMPOM, . SS.ccciccdscecccscivcsccskscacdisssieceddaes N*
eee Comaree TASC IMNOR SOs ictissiinsayssccnceh boone becbocaccnteecs dak AFS
TOU hg POND TE 0 isi ink cs Rvcdcndiisendiniedanbavudacssvcodéhiveniciccnsabdebel \
CRE FOES: BOL i vadodnckstoideseibdtnesdakenahevato da nuina mae A
SS AOUPUNCR, EO CLESMITINES DEM OUONE, DOS siscvdedinseevecsinses <ctalencuacacaisecee coyiics N

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

 

Teel -Pearry  EGemtand), "Sins... ccsscssssecchasln ee A el A*
Lressier, RoGert: Rinker, °44. oc. .....;.0cceccilstiret aca AAF
BROCE, SOND SCONE «9S son un sc tscocs ccnccacssvcancsdobacaeaeeae M MS***
FiGket, Thomas £ weenic; 41 wic;..0..ccscsssyddiacdosd eae AAF
Tarley;: Richard Haacock, (45. «..icesec.cinsesssdsrincan naa. MC
Turner, Racherd Fait, Il], °’42.:..2.....3.ciacecksheeeeeee AAF
Furner,; Vernon: Willard, °39.... :<.<iccccsisscesdeccdecbodetivens tekaeneie aan. N*
Twist; James Polke Ge. v2... cvccvescenckscb.ctsdctecne ee N
LPC LIB Fig Bc ceniesincccccccccecoscsebicdieneee edad A
Coen FT eS BB. BF isis cc ckccrnscviccostsccdviindgscsitenaeeh etna AAF
Van Buren, William Benjamin, II], ’44iccccccccdniiisteascdeksclveceoveicas.s N
Vance, Lions Alexander, °31............iccsiciendccceneeeminn ocak N*
Vanderbilt, Howard William, °45.....:.:sécsisdecatccsenceien pide skank N
VanGelder, Walter Benjamin, °44....:ciicci.cocdsistmaianibicsccs nsec. N
Yau Riper, Albert Russell; °45..2.i....ccccccleeeees..ceehoced A
Vickers, Earl Maxwell, -'49 0... .<.....:ceccasctseseenee Me occa ives N
Visison, Fred Moore, J1., °46. ..c.:..::.:scecscacdabene eee od AAF
Vroom, Robert: Douglas W.,; Jr., ’4Giccissscesmutante eas NAC
Waddington, Edward Clifton, Jr., '44.............ccccsssccsessssssseseeed AAF
Waener, Jolin Addington, Jr, °37 <::icsiscstini eee kay. N*
Walker, Charlies Ganahl, Jr., ’40.:......:c.danceia cal AAF*
Walker, Ernest B., Jr., "SB... c250iiccicncslkc teers teccs A
Walker, Louis McClelland, 240. ii.scicadeeeee ec ee kun. N
Walker, Robert Finley, Jr.; °41 ci.caiigica ae ces \
Warde, William ‘Albert, ’46.....é.cccdicahin eee... NAC
Ware, Jack: Call 746 5.....5..<scccovedcsedssuctauncvual anna nnIIT IS Sas contdaus N
Waring, John. Dawson, III, °45.....ciccciicee eee ek... NAC
Wearthen, George Lee, .’29.iaics..cccscissctestntseeeetiuaint an... cass] A*
Waters,. Fred: Eason;.Jr., °38.....::ississee ee eed AAF*
Watkins, Robert Earl, ’45........::c.céiscneeee ek dies N
Watson, Young Leonard, ’38.:.:.iccaue ee nk. AAF*
Watt, Robert Jeffress, Jr., "SDscccccccs even eclcatstevecadested A*
Watta,-Dabney Waller, '40..:.:c::dcigiceeeeengeeeathsesasis tetas iee N*
Wayman; James Bentley, °45...isccciscts Misc AAF
Weaver, Durward Dawley, °46;..iccdistccidaie mea Peedidiiaiasce. si. N
Webb, William Baxter, °42.....1:ccdsticseeeeclistccid AAF
Weeks, Charles. Moore, °46:.i.:.i:stsieaites ae en i aoiedeoeace ited A
Weidmann, Homer Walter Hu, "30 ciiiiccccuscsctcstiestetadecsecivevvevess.sJ A*
Welch, Donald, Jr., °43.....:.::.. <discec cea ee... N
Wellford, Harry Walker, ’46.::.icc:nie ee ca... N
Wemple, Jay Nevin, °44.v..i:...cccccswaloccdetie eerie laced ted AAF
Wheater, James William,’43...cc:<dssssa eset tend ade, MC
White, James Hoston, .°35sss.sccccscciseuecss tetanic thebetses cceed A
Wieland, Robert Lee, '23:.iccicccicstctestcme enemas bcevtasecnees J A
Wiggins, Eugene Selby, ‘Jr., "44 ciccacissitesmshteetasdtatestelacenbsocecscese MC
Wiglesworth, William Goodloe, Jr., ’35...........ccccsccessscesscesceeeees CG
Wilcox, William Stilwell, °43.c.ccucciigcaeisecoue eee ees ate stone AAF
Wilkerson, Charles Willis,:"36;cc cant acai tte ek ccc cs N*
Wilkins, Howard Coles, ?46;.j:/iisiisiceceae needed dacenei eg eee. ees N
Wilkins, Walter Jeter, Jr.; "41 jsisssicamsecee ee aa Mseadp obese. A*
Wilkinson, Charles Woodrow, "38 .ccccsscsccctcosscccsscoossseccoredbeccecscesed A*
Wilhams, Frank Jefferson, J#., Br s.sssmnseeeteeis testes. tlhe s..s.--.. N
Williams, George Alvin, Jr; "44.cigita eee ecetncerce tececd AAF
Williams, John Charles, "41 i..:cissccccceenee eet aiertitratestcscsccd AAF*
Williams, Stevenson Archer, °44............cccccccccccsssssscescesseed AAF* **
Williams, William Albert, Ji; "BZ: c..cccsssteise eaten tetsstcosesececes.0. N*
Willis, Edmund Sheldoti,4@iccc. 5s teetieticseiece... AAF
Willis, Edgar Woolford) :’45itisiscctisge eeepc ksedhcoccecd AAF
Wilson, Berry Holmati, 727 ...:-:cc:sctisein ee nEnE i ttat eres cceceescceses..J A
Wilson, Charles. T.,.°"SGijsicceccasegeeeeeeeiaeiagebast es oc0cees. MC
Wilson, George J oseplht, “43 iisccs.ssccstereen nna ietietiermseses00..000J AAF
Wilson, John, 7°45. .:ciiscsccclpeeieccsne EER tat idsisehec es ceed AFS
Wilson, Kenneth Browriy a iiiicccsc tes eee ei ate dcc cn ds.nscsccc000...2 A
Wimmer, Cullen: Fy, Bearcat aren sscesecee cesses. A
Winans, Henry Morea Fig aire rete iitasscscevicccccccccd AAF
Winborne, Roger hij iiicssssetsestsiet eet toh bacscecisncs00.. 00000 A
Winder, Williams Ray tice tiiihesineteccsesccccc..c0000 A
Winter, Clarke Butrilly Gr carcreiie et eteittntesscencecsecensicc.d AAF

[ 14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Wisene,, Nerten Lobatt: CA saiiidiniiad cats kiy, N*
VV Ghee, RACINE Bi sg RO ais savseen ches cissadicucs sd ics Hi renaeacccaaeudasesa liane
POE, MCI te a eg NAC
Wouters; lane srevmert. 46 idk ches eadeisse ch ts AAF
VV ST OR Rae ek et eC caand ov chaeescasd bhakoas N
WV FUE PE ECE e EPs. | BO hiisis saisins vn scncavcbccnarndtk prdbsicsecasitewes N*
YAMETAGE TAIN SEI: PO co eae ascak chads ccentoeendcca hamodnieeeel AAF
ES OLR Fe eG hae ailis cktN GEC chubivilcab Wescedbctoesseoacccsend AAF
LUMO Oe EN Fs, A ascitic cca ccdckcectsacwctccscdguatinuide N
ZANOTOE ; A | aia occ seeciekcnce Sts eats. edn N
Z.OMEDEG, Te ATG AE: Medes Matsenatl clad tinecccintplctn cn ded N

 

Service Casualties

(Since Last Published List)

RoBERT LLoyp Coxe, ‘40, Captain, Army Air Forces,
who had been listed as a German Prisoner of War since
some time in April of this year, was recently reported
to have died in a German Field Hospital.

WILLIAM E.. DARNALL, JR., 32, Corporal, U. S. Army,
died at Fort Macon, North Carolina, on April: a 1942.

Jutian LeRoy Dart, Jr., ’39,
l‘orces, was killed in the crash of a heavy bomber near
Texas, on July 18, 1943.

KNocH CLAYBOURN DEVANE, Jr., °43, Lieutenant,
Marine Arm of the Naval Air Corps, was killed July
29, 1943, in a night flight from the Marine
Santa Barabara, California.

Lieutenant, Army Air

Pyote,

air base at

Barclay Hucu Ditton, Jr., 36, Captain, Army Air
who had returned from overseas wearing the
Silver Star and the

Forces,
Distinguished Flying Cross, the
Purple Heart, was killed September 30, 1943, in a plane
crash fifteen miles from Pensacola, Florida.

Davip Wricut Hancock, °38, Army Air
was killed in a plane crash, July 29, 1941.

SAMUEL GIVENS McFappen, ’41, Ensign, Naval Air
Corps, was killed March 4, 1943, while in training at
Florida.

Forces,

Fort Lauderdale,

AUBREY LEE Simpson, Jr., “40, Ensign, Naval Air
Corps, was killed in a plane crash at sea on April 15,
1943.

RicHARD BERTON STEELMAN, 739, L.A.G.,
Canadian Air Force, was killed in routine flight duty
near Hamilton, Canada, on January 6, 1943.

GEORGE CooLEy Witicox, °25, Lieuetnant, U. S.
Navy, was killed July 2, 1943 while leaving Dutch Har-
bor, Alaska, for a new base. His plane crashed.

STEVENSON ARCHER WILLIAMS, °44, Lieutenant,
Army Air Forces, was killed in September, 1943, when
two Flying Fortresses collided in mid-air and plunged
Gulf of Mexico.

Royal

into the

Brooks CHAPMAN Younc, ‘41, Lieutenant, Marine

Arm of the Naval Air Corps, was killed in a plane crash
“somewhere in the South Pacific.’ The news was re-

leased February 20, 1943.

 

Alumni Trustees Meet

BoarpD OF TRUSTEES met at the
University 1943. On the same date the
Alumni Board of Trustees also held a meeting. The
following members of the Alumni Board were noted as
present; Roger J. Bear, °14, President, Ki Williams, *15,
J. W. Milner, °15, and John L,. Crist, °13. All members
of the Board, except Lieutenant Richard ‘T. Edwards,
who is in the service, had promised to be present, but
unforseen circumstances made it necessary for last-min-
ute cancellations by R. P. Hobson, *14, and John W.
Drye, Jr., °20. A better understanding of the problems
facing the University resulted from the joint gathering
of the Alumni Board and the University Board of
Trustees at the President's luncheon.

Elected to Alumni Board

Josepn W.

THe UNIVERSITY
on October &.

 

MILNER attended his first meeting as a
member of the Alumni Board of Trustees, held at the
University on October 8, 1943. Receiving his LL.B.
degree from the University in 1915, he made an unusual
record as a student as well as an outstanding athlete
both in football and baseball. He is a member of the
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity and White Friar. He has
served for many ye
Gulfport, Mississippi, which office he still holds;
dent of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company; owner of the
Gulfport Military Academy, and a Trustee of Gulf Park
girl's school.

Local Association Notes

THIRTEEN Louisville, Kentucky,alumni of Washington
and Lee University met for luncheon at the “235” Club
on September 23, 1943. Those present were Bill Farmer,
Hobson, Henry Hill, Ed Dodd,
Simmons, Tom Nugent, George Burks, Charles Semple,
Ernest Clarke, Bill Jones, Fielden Woodward and John
J. Davis, Jr. Fielden Woodward and John J. Davis, Jr.,
reelected and
spectively.

ars as Mayor of his home town,
Presi-

 

Robert Greenberry

were president secretary-treasurer  re-

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI of Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia met September 7, 1943. The following officers were
elected: William C. Raftery, President, Ed
Vice President, Woodson Gillock, Treasurer, and Charles
Kllison, Secretary

Moore,

[15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A MESSAGE
From Your Alumni President

OR some unaccountable reason I was recently prompt-

ed to find out what it actually costs to educate a boy
at Washington and Lee. I was greatly surprised to learn
that the figure is approximately $650.00 per year. It had
never occurred to me that endowments — gifts from
friends of Washington and Lee unknown to me — had
contributed more toward my education than I myself
had paid. This knowledge struck me as being so arrest-
ing that I thought it would be of interest to all our
Alumni. It is chosen as the basis for this message — not
to highlight what might appear to be an undischarged
obligation — but only as interesting, thought-provoking
information.

Undoubtedly many of us have had the feeling that the
years spent at Washington and Lee were worth more

than the tuition we paid. Possibly that is why many have

affiliated with the Alumni Association: why more and
more are becoming actively interested in the affairs of
their Alma Mater and why the class agent plan has been
increasingly successful in procuring contributions to aid
in the work the University is doing. Kven without any
knowledge of the figures quoted herein it is evident that
more and more of our Alumni are feeling the urge to
contribute to the University in somewhat the degree that
they feel Washington and Lee has influenced their lives
and contributed to their success as individuals.

It is the hope of your President that the thoughts
expressed in this message may bring to every Alumnus
the realization of an opportunity which is available —
through your Alumni Association — to aid present and
future students at Washington and Lee as others in the

past have helped each one of us.

 

[ 16 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1879

 

Joun M. GLENN still
lives at 1 Lexington Av-
enue, New York City.

1886
W. J. HumpHreys, Cos-
Club, Washington,
D. C., received an honor-
- ary degree from Washing-

mos

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class
notes appearing in this issue. The letters from which
these notes are taken were written, for the most part,
early last spring. The rapid influx of alumni into the
several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes
inaccurate. We would like to have more material for
class notes in letters to your Class Agents this year.

1890
A. K. BowLEs is with
Consolidated Coal Com-

pany, Inc., 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York City.
Davin B. Maccowan,
106 Madison St., Lynch-
burg, Virginia, gives us
the following concerning
the activities of his chil-

 

 

ton and Lee in 1942. He

is the author of a recently published book, **Ways of the
Weather,” a cultural survey of meteorology, which is
recommended by the Book of the Month Club.

1887

WILLIAM TURNER ARMSTRONG is a member of the
law firm of Armstrong, Cranford, Barker and Bedford,

American National Insurance Building, Galveston,
‘Texas.
Dr. Brown Craic PATTERSON, who served for a

quarter of a century as a missionary in China, is now liv-
ing at Route No. 2, Staunton, Virginia.

1888
Jupce HreNry W. Ho vt, lives in Staunton, Virginia.

CAPTAIN GREENLEE D. LETCHER, Lexington, Virginia
has entirely recovered from a recent illness, and is again
active and interested in everything pertaining to Wash-
ington and Lee.

Epwin W. KAMINSKI lives in George-
town, South Carolina. He has never re-
turned to Lexington since leaving college,
but has fond recollections of the old cam-
pus and the old buildings which are very
dear to him.

1889

Dr. JAMES Q. CHAMBERS lives at 3624
Holmes Street, Kansas City, Missouri.

CARLISLE H. GILKESON lives in Fair-
field, Virginia. He is always interested and
helpful.

   

Sus,
mT

 

dren: Commander Birk-
head Macgowan, M.C., U.S.N.R., at Charleston Navy
Yard; Vice Consul Basil F. Macgowan, in detention at
Baden Baden, Germany; Private Carrick B. Macgowan,
U.S.A.; Miss Everett W. Macgowan, senior civilian clerk,
U.S. War Department; Mary, Mrs. Rollin R. Winslow,
recently returned from Quebec, Canada. Her husband
is Iirst Secretary of Legation at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(Note: Mr. Macgowan, Please invite us to dinner when
the war is over and your children have returned. )

1891

FRANK A. NELSON has many business and social in-
terests in Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is a frequent visi-
tor in Lexington where he has many family ties. He is
the son of the late Professor Alex A. Nelson, who was
professor of mathematics at the University for fifty
years.

1905

Hate Houston, Professor Emeritus, Washington
and Lee University, had a bad fall during
the summer which put him in the hospital
for several weeks. He is out again and well
on the road to recovery.

Witiiam G. WIGLEswortH is farming
and in the tobacco business in Cynthiana,
Kentucky.

Dr. E. L. Green, Class Agent for 1892,
Professor in the Department of Ancient
ee Languages, University of South Carolina,
TH] dYASp 1 i es as : ‘
i) j has made a most interesting gift to the li-

ji ny .
Hil” brary. He has sent 24 textbooks which he
ij) loys:  USed when he was a student at Washington
and Lee. He also has given the library his

  

li,

 

(fc . .

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

matriculation certificates, pictures of his professors, and
many other interesting clippings and documents.

The textbooks and the accompanying material have
been placed in the University Archives as a sample text-
book collection of the 1890's.

1893

B. A. Jupp, the faithful Class Agent for ’93, is still
practicing law at 25 Broad Street, New York.

DupLry D. PENDLETON is a Sales Engineer with of-
fices in the Bessemer Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania. He is busy in Defense Plant Corporation
projects.

Harry W. Pratt teaches in the Columbia Bible Col-
lege, Columbia, South Carolina, in addition to serving
as pastor of a Presbyterian Church in the vicinity of
Columbia. He drove over 1,000 miles per month, prior
to gas rationing. Dr. Pratt was a visitor to Lexington
during the summer.

HARRINGTON WaAbDELL has recently retired as Prin-
cipal of the Public Schools of Lexington, Virginia.

1894

James N. VEECH returned to Lexington in January
1941, living for nine months with his son Alex M.
Veech, who was then a professor at Washington and
Lee. Since that time Alex Veech has gone into the
service, and his father is now at his old home in Louis-
ville, Kentucky. His address is 551 Barberry Lane.

1895

Lyne S. Smitru, 441 West Seventh Street, Erie,
Pennsylvania, writes : ‘I know the old school will weather
the gale, in these most trying times, and in the end when
our victory is won, will come out with her colors fly-
ing.”

1896

SAMUEL D. Strokes has retired from the practice of
law in Roanoke and is now farming. His address is
R. F. D. No. 2, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. W. Larromus is still practicing law in Wilming-
ton, Delaware. This is the fourth year he has served
as Agent for the class of 1896. This unselfish service
is greatly appreciated by the Alumni Office and the Uni-
versity.

1897

Avery H. REep is a consulting mining engineer and
geologist, at Marion, Kentucky. He writes: “I am al-

ways glad to receive news of Washington and Lee,
and I glory with her in the war spirit the times make
necessary to embrace and endure.”

LeRoy C. BArREt and his wife spent a month in Lex-
ington this summer. Dr. Barrett is still teaching in Tri-
nity College, Hartford, Connecticut.

THomas H. Wess has been with the Texas Highway
Department for twenty-four years, seventeen years as
Assistant State Highway Engineer. He is married and
has one daughter. His home is at 1400 Etheridge Avenue,
Austin, Texas.

1898

RAN SHIELDs, after serving for many years as a
medical missionary in China, is now professor in the De-
partment of Pathology, School of Medicine, University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C.

BoRDEN Burr is a member of the law firm of Ben-
ners, Burr, McKamy and Forman, Brown-Marx Build-
ing, Birmingham, Alabama. He would like to see the
class get together for a reunion, with John W. Davis
as chaperone, and revive old friendships and = dear
recollections.

Rosert W. Mayo is practicing law in Dallas, Texas,
with offices in the Kirby Building. He is engaged in sun-
dry duties for civil defense and the production of an
extra amount of food for the country. His two sons are
in the armed forces. One a lieutenant-colonel in the field
artillery; the other a lieutenant in the navy air combat
service. The latter was serving on the Wasp when she
was torpedoed in the Pacific, but was rescued by a de-
stroyer after some hours in the water.

1899

STEWART L,. CREBS is a real estate broker and Vice-
President of the Los Angeles Realty Board. He has two
children, William J. Crebs and Caswell J. Crebes. His
address is 124 South La Brea Avenue, Los Angeles,
California.

Harry Sr. G. Tucker CARMICHAEL, General Man-
ager of the Kentucky Rock and Asphalt Company, Ky-
rock, Kentucky, is a frequent visitor to the Campus in
connection with his position as a member of the Uni-
versity Board of ‘Trustees.

Rev. JAMEs A. McCrure, D.D., is Minister of the
First Presbyterian Church, St. Petersburg, Florida,
which position he has held for nearly nineteen years. His
three sons, all graduates of Washington and Lee, are in
various branches of the armed services.

[18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1900

SAMUEL Rurrin Horne, Class Agent for 1900, is a

Pharmacist in Fayetteville, North Carolina.

Joun RANbDOLPH TUCKER is a member of the law
firm of ‘Tucker, Bronson, Satterfield and Mays, and
General Counsel, Virginia Trust Company, Richmond,
Virginia.

1901

WittiAM R. ALLEN, who has been president of the
Chicago local alumni chapter has retired to Ocean Springs,
* ... fish a little, golf a little, play a little,
practice a little, if | want—I’m taking it easy for awhile.”

Mississippi, to

MATTHEW Pace ANbrREws, 845 Park Avenue, Balti-
more, Md., has a new historical work on the Scribners
presses, due for publication next spring, called “The Soul
of a Nation” with the sub-title “The Founding of Vir-
ginia and the Projection of New England.”

Joun M. Cospperr, Bay City, Texas, says: “I am still
practicing law in this country town as I have been for
forty-one years.” His son, Duncan Corbett, class of °38,

is in the United States Army.

1902

Ropert O. Hurr has been United States Referee in
Bankruptcy for the past ten years. He is married and
has four sons, one in the armed forces. His address is
Federal Building, San Antonio, Texas.

J. Woop GLaAss is practicing law in Nowata, Okla-
homa. He writes: ‘Like President Wilson I am doing
my own typing today. The Coast Artillery got my sec-
retary; the infantry got my janitor; Washington took
two stenographers in succession; a munitions plant se-
duced my house-maid at $45 per week, and all I have
left is the cook who leaves every other week-end to visit
some of her relatives in the army.”

W. TT. Evriis, M. D., 1115 Lindley Avenue, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania, is interested in defense work and
standing squarely behind the fighting men and our gov-
ernment.

R. IF. Cooper is Vice-President and head of the
Social Science Department at Bellhaven College, Jack-
son, Mississippi. He has a Victory Garden on the cam-
pus.

1903

Cary R. Briain, Class Agent for 1903, is a Presby-
terian Minister in Ellerbe, North Carolina. He regrets

that he cannot serve in this war as he did in World War
[, and thinks the government should look into the legal
lights, medical talent, teaching and preaching ability and
business power exhibited by the members of the Class
of 1903, and reconsider.

IREDERICK W. CRAMER is engaged in the fertilizer and
stone business under the name York Stone and Supply
Company, Roosevelt Avenue, York, Pennsylvania. His
two sons were associated with him in the business, but
both of them are now in the service.

JAMEs W. Bactey, Colonel U.S.A., Retired, is con-
nected with the Institute of Geographical Exploration,
Harvard University. He says his activities continue as in
other years, but at an accelerated tempo, owing to the

Ts .
war. [he course he teaches are designed to be of the ut-
most value in the war service.

W. J. TURNER is Superintendent of the Rancagua Cop-
per Mines, Rancagua, Chile. He makes ‘flying trips”
to this country, but seldom gets back to Lexington. His
company is operating at full capacity, in fact beyond
what they call normal capacity, in the production of cop-
per, all of which goes to the war effort of the United
States. His elder boy is now an Ensign in the Submarine
Service of the Navy, and his younger son, who is seven-
teen, has just entered Harvard.

JouN Monroe Banister GILL, B.D., was for fifteen
years a Missionary in China and founded the Episcopal
mission in Nanking. Was decorated by the Chinese Gov-
ernment for rescue work during a rebellion in 1903.
Returned to the United States in 1925 and served as
General Secretary of the Field Department of the
National Council of the Episcopal Church in New York.
For thirteen years was Rector of St. Paul’s Church,
Petersburg, Virginai. Since 1937 has been a missionary
in the District of Eastern Oregon, in charge of Lake
County, with an area equal to the States of Massachus-
etts, Connecticut and Rhode Island combined. He says:
“T am never unconscious of the influence of Washing-
ton and Lee and my time there is a memory which unfail-
ingly inspires me in my devotion to the great verities of
human character and living.”

1904

COLONEL WILLIAM CoLkr Davis, U.S.A., retired, has
been appointed post surgeon at the Virginia Military In-
stitute, Lexington, Virginia. After receiving his medical
training at the U. S. Army Medical College, Colonel
Davis saw service in the Philippines from 1911 to 1913,

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

was on the staff at West Point from 1913 to 1917 and
commanded a base hospital in the first World War. He
retired from the Army in 1928 and for the past 15 years
has been engaged in private practice in Atlantic City.

Rev. Hersert S. Ossurn is living in Tappahannock,
Virginia. He retired in 1940 as Rector of Ware and
Abingdon Parishes, Gloucester, Virginia, on account of
arthritis, but does supply preaching from his rolling
chair almost every Sunday. Both of his sons are in the
services, HERBERT Scorr, 1940, is with the Army Air
Corps, and his youngest son, Robert Beveridge, who
expected to enter Washington and Lee this fall, was
caught in the 18-year-old draft, and is now at Camp
Wheeler, Georgia.

GrorcE EF. Haw is a member of the law firm of Haw
and Haw, Travelers Building, Richmond, Virginia. His
only son, George, Jr., after having finished his sopho-
more year at Washington and Lee, volunteered in the
United States Army and was stationed at Camp Lee,
Virginia.

Joun Henry Day, D.D., is minister of the Seventh
Baptist church, North Avenue and St. Paul Street,
saltimore, Maryland, where he has been for seventeen

years.

kK. I. McKay is a member of the law firm of McKay,
Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson, Maas Office Build-
ing, Tampa, Florida.

1905

Witsur E. McCLenny lives at 118 St. James Ave-
nue, Suffolk, Virginia. He says: “Owing to the times
through which we are passing, there is great need for
the whole country to return to the original ideals of
Washington and Lee.”

Joun L,. DANtEL is. still teaching in the Georgia
School of ‘Technology, Atlanta, Georgia.

1906

WALLER RayMonb Cooper has been professor of His-
tory at Southwestern College, Memphis, Tennessee since
1920, and Dean of Men since 1925. He has degrees from
Washington and Lee, Harvard, Oxford, and the Uni-
versity of Alabama. He was married Noy. 25, 1941 to
Kmily Morrison of Memphis.

Joun E. Scorr has retired from the Engineering
Force of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
and he and his wife have moved to a small farm on the
outskirts of Pratville, Alabama. His son is a first lieu-

tenant in the signal corps, and his daughter’s husband is
also in the Army.

Henry C. TittMAN, Class Agent for 1906, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Tillman and Henderson, First
National Bank Building, Tampa, Florida. He received
many fine letters from members of his class.

J. HArpeEN HoweE-t has served nine years as Post-
master, Waynesville, North Carolina. He has been com-
missioned to command one of the regiments in the North
Carolina State Guard.

CLAUDE Posst is practicing law in Grundy, Virginia.
He says he is trying to do his bit as coordinator for his
county and by the contribution of both of his sons and
son-in-law. The son-in-law and older son are officers.

1907

I. P. (“IKE”) GASSMAN is president of the Arcade
Manufacturing Company of Freeport, Illinois, makers
of Hardware specialties and iron toys in normal times,
now about 100 per cent on government work. His sons,
loyal P., and George L,., alumni of Washington and Lee,
are in the service.

W. R. J. DuNN is Vice-President and General Man-
ager of the Dunn Construction Company, general con-
tractors, Birmingham, Alabama. His company has com-
pleted several large war jobs, and he is gratified that it
has received the Army-Navy “KE” for exceptional pro-
duction.

IK. Crype Hocer, Class Agent for 1907, is General
Manager of the Lathrop-Hoge Construction Company,
Cincinnati, Ohio. He is busy with a large amount of war
work in connection with the Army and Navy building
program and particularly with several large plants for
the Aluminum Company of America.

1908

Horack W. Puittirs—familiarly and affectionately
known as ‘‘Rags,” has done an outstanding job as Class
Agent for the Academic Class of 1908. His home is in
Hardeeville, South Carolina. He has a wife and one son,
a graduate of the Citadel, a Ist Lieutenant in the infan-
try.

 

Prit Pace is still with the Chicago Journal of Com-
merce, 12 East Grand Avenue, Chicago. His older son,
who was a student at Washington and Lee, was pulled
out of college in the middle of his sophomore year as a
member of the AERC, and is now at Fort Belvoir, Vir-
ginia.

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A. D. (“ABE”) SoMERVILLE, A.A.S., L.S.U., Baton
Rouge, Louisiana. He is serving as Assistant Director of
Instruction, ‘in a general way’, and among his specific
duties is that of Orientation Officer in which he has
charge of all orientation. He is also the Summary Court
for the School, and co-ordinator for the courses in
Courts Martial, Boards and Investigations.

WHEATLEY M. JOHNSON is proprietor of the Clover
Hill Farm, Established in 1770, Manassas, Virginia. He
is trying to run a dairy farm to capacity with very little
assistance, and has helped organize a local company of
“Minute Men”, of which he is captain.

PEYTON Hopson is a member of the law firm of Har-
man, Francis & Hobson, First National Bank Build-
ing, Pikeville, Kentucky. His oldest son Peyton returned
about the middle of January from a long stay in the
South Seas, where he and his shipmates saw consider-
able action.

HeNry (“Bussty”) Wuite is sole proprietor of
Henry White & Company, Investment Bankers, Fidelity
Building, Baltimore, Maryland. His son is in his second
year at Yale but has been called to the Army. He also has
a son-in-law training for the Navy.

1909

HENRY STAFFORD CALDWELL is_ practicing law in
Tallahassee, Florida. His offices are in the Centennial
Building.

JouNn Lyte CaAmppeti, Trust Officer Rockbridge
National Bank, Lexington, Virginia, has a son, John L,,
Jr... who is a lieutenant in the Marine Corps, and a
daughter, Emily, serving with the Marines.

Kwinc S. Humpureys is Contracting Engineer with
the Virginia Bridge Company, Healey Building, Atlanta,
Georgia. His son, Ewing, Jr., completed his junior year
at Washington and Lee, and is now in the U. S. Marine
Corps Detachment at Duke University. Mwing, Sr., paid
a visit to the campus in May, 1943.

W. FE. Moretanp, M. D., is practicing his profession
in Powhatan, Louisiana. He and his wife celebrated
their thirtieth wedding anniversary on June 17, 1943.
They have two sons and two daughters and five grand-
children. He has been farming and practicing medicine
in Powhatan for twenty-six years.

Dr. J. W. CLAupy, Class Agent for the Academic Class

of 1909, is Superintendent of the Western State Peni-
tentiary, Rockview Farm Prison, Bellefonte, Pennsyl-

vania. He has done a fine job as Class Agent but has
given us no personal news from which we can write a
class note.

1910

RusseEvLL L,. RINK has been General Counsel for the
Klorida East Coast Railway since 1939. He is a mem-
ber of the Florida Council for the Blind, a state agen-
cy of five members in charge of rehabilitation of blind
persons. He has two children, one a son now a First Lieu-
tenant in the Field Artillery.

CHARLES I. DwiccINns is in Lakeland, Florida. After
leaving school he was in the Banking Business in Okla-
homa and Florida until 1823, when he retired on ac-
count of illness, to engage in citrus producing, where he
has been since that time. He has two sons, William Clay,
B.S. W. & L. °37, who is a First Lieutenant in the
Marines, now in the South Pacific; and Crales, a gradu-
ate of Birmingham-Southern, a Second Lieutenant, now
in New Guinea.

HArkyY J. LEMLEy 1s Judge of the United States Dis-
trict Court, 308 Federal Building, Texarkana, Arkansas,
and holds court at Texarkana, Little Rock, Helena, and
Jatesville, Arkansas. He has two sons, both graduates
of West Point, Colonel Harry J. Lemley, Jr., and Major
K. McRae Lemley.

C. W. Streit, Jr., Class Agent for 1910-A, is Vice-
President of the Southern Cement Company, 608 Pro-
tective Life Building, Birmingham, Alabama. He did a
fine job and received many interesting letters.

CHARLES R. Hauke last March was in charge of
construction for Uncle Sam of the large airfield at Sel-
fridge, Michigan. He has been with the Engineer Corps
since January 1, 1941. He plans to visit Lexington when
the job of licking the Japs and the Heinies is finished.
Mail addressed to him at 187 N. Gratiot, Mt. Clemens,
Michigan, will always be forwarded.

LeRoy Hopcks is a retired Lieutenant Colonel of
Ordnance, who was in the hands of the “medicos,” when
this letter was written in March. His home is at 3505
Seminary Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

ORANGE RICHARDSON is Vice-President of the Du-
quesne Lumber Company, Inc., wholesale lumber dealers
of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He was class agent for
1910—Law did a fine job in spite of the pressure of
many activities.

R. S. HurcHeson is in the lumber business in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1911

Joun F. Brown is Judge of the 20th Judicial Circuit,
Klkins, West Virginia. He has a daughter twelve years
old and a son, John F., Jr., who has been in the Navy for
the past year.

I. P. Gururik, Class Agent for the academic class of
1911, is district communications manager for R.C.A.,
1112 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. Not-
withstanding how busy he is, he did a splendid job for
his class and had many fine responses. His son, WALTER,
1940, is now a Lieutenant, United States Army.

CLEMMENTS McMULLEN is a Major General, Army
Air Forces, Patterson Field, Fairfield, Ohio. He has
recently completed a trip through Africa, India, and
China.

S. R. GAMMON is still teaching in the History Depart-
ment, of the Agricultural and Mechanical College of
Texas, College Station, Texas. His two sons are in the
Service.

Henry Moncvus has been with the Ordance Depart-
ment since January 1942, and went to the Radford, Vir-
ginia, Works in March of that year. He has charge of
Process Inspection on Nitro-cellulose, Nitric, Sulphuric
Acid, Filtration Plant and waste disposal. He says the
plant is splendidly equipped and thinks Hercules is doing
a good job operating it. He still owns his farm at Aquia
Creek on U.S. Route 1, to drift back to when the war
is over. He has a girl, serving in the WAVES, and a son
in the Active Marine Reserves. There are three younger
children.

H. R. Puitiies has for the past twenty years been
operating a small steel fabricating plant in Spartanburg,
South Corlina. They are now operating on both Army
and Navy contracts. He has a son twenty years of age
but could not send him to Washington and Lee as he
wanted an engineering education. He graduated from
Renselaer Polytechnic last December. He is now in the
service.

W. T. Riviere is now a Lieutenant-Colonel. He gradu-
ated from the Infantry School at Fort Benning, com-
manded a negro battalion and a W.D.C. section in Ari-
zona, and has been on duty on the Pacific Coast. Prior
to his army service he was Pastor of a church in Victoria,
Texas.

James M. Barker, JR., is in the insurance business
in Bristol, Tennessee. He is heavily loaded with civic
services incident to the war.

L.. LL. HUmMpuries is President of the Security National
Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma. He is still on the job selling
war bonds as Chairman of Victory Fund Committee for
his county and raising cattle and hogs for ‘Food for
I*reedom.”

J. Tom Watson is Attorney General of the State of
llorida. He finds his work tremendously absorbing and
inspirational. His three sons are all in the service—one
in R.O.T.C. training, another is an air-filight Instructor,
and the third is a Major in the infantry.

Omer T. Kaytor, Attorney-at-law, Hagerstown,
Maryland, is Class Agent for 1911-Law. His son, for-
merly a student of Washington and Lee, is now receiving
training in the Navy's V-12 program and is stationed at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

LutrxHer G. Scorr is City Attorney of Bluefield, West
Virginia. We quote from his class letter, “I do not doubt
that Washington and Lee will find its place in the new
order of things and will do a great part in the work of
reestablishing the higher values of life among those whose
duty it will be to direct the destinies of this country and
the world. I believe that those in charge are capable of
holding a steady hand and steering the institution in the
right direction.”

1912

PAuL A. ROCKWELL, who served in World War I with
the Escadrille Lafayette, is now a Major in the United
States Army Air Corps, somewhere in North Africa.
The Escadrille Lafayette has been reborn. A group of
young French pilots are carrying on its traditions. Paul
was at the inaugural ceremony.

SAM A. HONAKER has been in active service since
March, 1941, and is now a Lieutenant-Colonel. He is
Assistant Director Administration Division, San Fran-
cisco Port of Embarkation. Headquarters, Fort Mason,
California.

Byron L,. BALLARD is a member of the law firm of
Shields, Ballard, Jennings & Taber, 1400 Olds Tower
Building, Lansing, Michigan. His son, Thomas, was tak-
en from Washington and Lee last April as a Second Lieu-
tenant in the Army. He is now in the South Pacific and is
Liaison Officer between the American Forces and the
Chinese troops.

Crayton EE. WittiAMs, Professor of Law, Washing-
ton and Lee, besides being a good teacher and a good
lawyer, is now a good farmer. He has recently purchased
a farm near Lexington. His son, SAMUEL, 1944, is now

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

in the U.S. Army Air Forces, and is at present located
at Victory Field, Vernon, Texas.

1913

Major Heérpertr V. Carson, one of the South’s lead-
ing clergymen in civilian life, has been appointed officer
in charge of the extensive Army Emergency Relief pro-
gram of the Army Air Forces Central Flying ‘Training
Command headquartered at Randolph Field, Texas. He
has been pastor of the ‘Trinity Presbyterian church in
Montgomery, Alabama since 1924.

C. C. (“Rep”) Moore, Class Agent for 1913-A, has
recently changed his address from Cleveland, Ohio, to
67 McCall Street, Memphis, Tennessee. He is district
Manager for Pittsburg Equitable Meter Company. This
is the largest meter and regulator plant in the world.

P. D. Converse is still in the Department of Com-
merce, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, at least
what is left of it, for he says the staff from the Business
Operations Department has left for war services faster
than the students. He has tried to keep some research
going and three recent projects are; an evaluation of the
tobacco auction system (published by the Journal of
Business, University of Chicago) ; an evaluation of cit-
izenship of chain stores (to be published in the Journal
of Marketing) ; and an analysis or delineator of a retail
trade pattern in Central Illinois (to be published as a
bulletin by the University of Illinois Bureau of Eco-
nomics and Business research. )

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON is a Colonel in the Air Corps,
stationed at Arlington, Virginia. His address is 2820
North Franklin Road. He complains bitterly that he is
having to “see America first,” when there is a fifty-ring
circus under way all over the globe.

Witiram A. (“Bitty”) Wricur, JRr., is Chairman
of the Virginia Conservation Commission. He wrote in
part. “Suffice it to say, my faith in Washington and Lee
is abiding and unshakable. Her lofty spirit of sacrifice,
her enduring spirit of patriotism and her determined
will to carry on in adversity will survive in this war as
they have survived in all previous wars. Her grand herit-
age in name has been an electrifying inspiration to her
sons through the succeeding generations of existence.
Her sons of today will record in history the same immor-
tal examples of courage, fortitude, patience and endur-
ance that her sons since the days of Augusta Academy
have recorded. Washington and Lee will emerge from
this devastation, destruction and confusion a better and

finer institution, holding high her “torch of principles,”
for which she has always stood. Through the threaten-
ing clouds of disappointment, despondency and dispair,
we can now almost see a halo of duty well done hovering
over our Alma Mater.

‘Like mother, like son, is a saying so true,

The world will judge largely of mother by you;

se sure it will say when its verdict you have won,
She reaped as she sowed, lo, this is her son,’ ”’

Joun LL. Crist is President of the Southern Dyestuff
Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina. He is a member
of the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees. His son Jack, Jr.,
finished his second year at the University in August
1943,

Henry E. PEEPLEs is in the insurance business, under
the firm name McLain-Peeples & Morris, Incorporated,
138 Sycamore Street, Decatur, Georgia. He writes: “I
have taken a great interest in the Boy Scout movement
during the past several years. I was scoutmaster of a
fine troop for twelve years and since our local Rotary
club has taken over the operation of the Court of Honor
for that organizatiton, I am glad to be serving on that
committee. My chief interest in life is my family. My
wife is still young to me, she is literary and stimulating
and keeps in good health. My daughter is now a Senior
at the University of Georgia and is close to making Phi
Beta Kappa. (I beg anyone of class of 1913 who reads
this, not to laugh, she takes after her mother.) My son,
Henry, Jr., is now at Pyote, Texas, and is a first pilot of
a Flying Fortress in the U.S. Army Air Corps. He
expects to be overseas before you read this.”

We are sorry to have to add to this note that Henry,
Jr., 1943, was reported missing in action since August
17, 1943, while piloting a Flying Fortress in England
area. More recently he has been reported as a Prisoner

of War.

CARTER GLAss, JR., is a Major in the U.S.A. To his
surprise and delight he was detailed to the Army School
for Special Service at Washington and Lee in July which
he attended for a four weeks course.

H. Wisk KELty is a member of the Law firm of Bowen
and Kelly, Potomac Electric Power Company Building,
Washington, D.C. His home is in Fairfax, Virginia. His
son is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Howarp P. MacFartaneé is a member of the law
firm of McKay, MacFarlane, Jackson & Ferguson, Maas
Office Building, ‘Tampa, Florida. For the past two years
he has been head of the local Defense Council in ‘Tampa,
which has kept him busy taken in connection with the

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

requirements incident to practicing law under present
conditions. Seven of the younger men connected with
his firm have gone into the service.

1914

Henry Lewis Mitcer is President and General Man-
ager of New River Grocery Company, wholesale grocers,
with houses at Hinton, Rainelle and Mabscott, West
Virginia. His address is Box 150, Hinton, West Virginia.

Wittiam Mosetty Brown is a Major, Signal Corps,
U.S. .Army. His address is Drawer 506, Scarsdale, New
York.

CLARENCE Avery, member of the University Board of
Trustees, says he is still “pegging along trying to run
the Chattanooga Glass Company.” He has many war
activities, is president of the Chattanooga Manufacturers
Association and superintendent of the Sunday School,
which is one of the most fascinating jobs he has. His
son, Lupton Avery, 1941, is a captain in the Field Ar-
tillery, U.S.A.

Francis Pickens MILLER, Pickens Hill, Fairfax,

Virginia, is now a Lieutenant- Colonel, U.S.A.

Rocer J. Bear, now President of the Washington and
Lee Alumni, Incorporated, is one of the Executives of
the Kroger Grocery and Baking Company, Cincinnati,
Ohio. His son, Roger J., Jr., 1945, is in the Army Air
Corps.

A. W. McCarn is one of the Vice-Presidents of the
Chase National Bank, 20 Pine Street, New York. He says
that at present almost 100 per cent of their time is de-
voted to financing war production rather than ordinary
civilian business.

Watrer J. WiLxkrins, Route 7, Box 265, Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, says that most of his time is devoted to farm-
ing. His sons, WALTER J., Jr., A.B. 1940, and Howarp,
1946, are now in the service.

1915

Ray S. Smiru, 303 Quapaw Avenue, Hot Springs,
Arkansas has one son in the Army and another at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Colonel FRANK B. Hayne was sent on a mission to
Russia in 1942, and in May was transferred to the Mid-
dle East. Since then he has served in Eritrea four months,
Egypt one and one-half months and Palestine eleven and
one-half months, his last job being at the Head of the
Special Service Division for the Middle East. He says:

“As old Washington and Lee seems to have gone in for
Special Service in a big way, this point may be interest
to you.”” His present address is Hq. IRTC, Ft. MeCel-
lan, Alabama.

CLARENCE IK. Womsce is President of the Womble
Box Corporation, Norfolk, Virginia. His company is
engaged 100 per cent in war work and of course they
have more than they can do. Both of his sons are in the
service, one in the Navy and the other in the Army Air
Corps.

Kr WiLLIAMs says his status is about the same as last
year. He is still Manager of the du Pont Plant at Waynes-
horo, Virginia. Was recently elected a member of the
Soard of Trustees.

Rupert LAtrurE has been serving as Dean of Stu-
dents at Washington and Lee.

S. G. KELLER is still in the oil refining business, doing
his best to put all the 100 per cent octane gasoline he can
in the hands of our overseas fliers. His address is Drawer
D, Trenton, Michigan.

Howarpb Stuck is owner and operator of the Piggly
Wiggly stores of Jonesboro, Arkansas. His son, Howard,
Jr., is now a Second Lieutenant in the Coast Artillery.
Many of his employees have gone into the services and he
is training women to take their places.

Leon W. Harris is practicing law in Anderson, South
Carolina, and farming on the side. He paid a visit to the
campus in the fall of 1942 to visit his son who was a
member of the Junior Class, now in the Army Air Corps,
at Miami Beach, California.

1916

Maurice B. RipgNour is President of Steffey and
Findlay, Incorporated, (builders supplies, coal, fuel oil,
etc.) Hagerstown, Maryland. He is a member of the
Hagerstown Rotary Club, thirty-second degree Mason,

4“ 4 e 4
and served the past year as Fuel Conservation Consul-
tant for his local district.

J. C. Rivers was extremely busy when his letter was
written in March on the Red Cross War Fund’s $125,-
000,000 campaign. As directing supervisor for six sections
in the Commerce and Industry Division his responsibility
was the raising of $4,000,000 for the fund. His address
is 319 97th Street, New York, New York.

I.ycurcus Hyrks is practicing law in Buckhannon, West
Virginia. He has been on the Advisory Board for his local
Draft Board.

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

EK. B. (“TEep”’) Suuvrz is Director of Labor Relations,
Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee. His
letter was written last March, from Atlanta, where he
had been loaned to the Regional War Labor Board for
three months. He has a son and a daughter in the service.

LYNCH CHRISTIAN is still selling coal with the Imper-
Colliery Company, in Lynchburg, Virginia. His Son
LyNcuH, Jr., Washington and Lee 1944, is still in the
Army Air Corps.

H. J. Kiser is practicing law in Wise, Virginia. He
has had two sons at Washington and Lee, WILLIAM R.,
B.A., 1942 and L.L.B. 1943, and HEeNry J. Jr., 1941.

WILLIAM S. HoLLanp is practicing law in Suffolk,
Virginia. He has a son in service in Alaska and another
in the Army Air Corps, and a third boy who is sixteen
years old. He also has a daughter, twenty-one years old.
His oldest son is married and has one child, so he is a
“Grandpa.”

Grapy H. Forcy has been engaged in Public Relations
work for the Petroleum Industry for the past twelve
years. His home is in Little Rock, Arkansas. His son,
Grapy, JR., graduated from Washington and Lee in 1942
and is now an ensign in the Navy. His second son, who
also went to Washington and Lee, taking a pre-Archi-
tectural course, is now in Washington University, but
expected to go in the service this past summer. His wife
and three daughters are at home in Little Rock.

ViviAn LL, PAGE represents the Second Senatorial Dis-
trict of Viriginia in the State Senate. His only son, who
attended Washington and Lee, 1939, is a lieutenant in
the Navy and has been on foreign duty for over a year.

Norvin C. (“Crick”) Evans is a Major in the
United States Army, National Guard Armory, 20th and
B. Streets, Washington, D. C. He says he is working
harder than he ever has in his life, including the last war,
when he was full of “wim and wigor.”” When his letter
was written in March, his son, who was 19, was in high
school, classified 1-A, but had not been called to the
service.

Tuomas A. MILEs, after leaving Washington and Lee,
landed in Fayetteville, West Virginia. It is his home
county and Fayetteville is the County Seat. He has served
as Mayor for Fayetteville for the past four years. His
son, Thomas E., has received his stripes and is now in
camp.

RANDOLPH VALz is living in Beckley, West Vir-
ginia.

1917

Joun LEVERING EARLY was a visitor to the campus
during the summer, the first time he had returned to
lexington since graduation. His home is in Sarasota,
llorida.

Marion S. SANDERs is Assistant Division Engineer of
Klectrical Division, at the Sunflower Ordance Works of
the Hercules Powder Company in Lawrence, Kansas. He
and his family have moved from their home in Wythe-
ville, Virginia, and are living at 1447 Vermont Street,
lawrence, Kansas.

Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, Secretary of the Washing-
ton and lee Alumni Association since 1933, has been on
leave of absence from the University since November,
1942, serving with the Censorship Department in Puerto
Rico. His box number is 2142. Mrs. Young joined him
there last April. His son, NEELy, Washington and Lee,
1943, is now doing a fine job in the Army Air Corps. He
is now a first pilot of a flying fortress.

CHARLES B. STriBLinc, Superintendent of Missouri
Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri, has been on active
duty as a Colonel, U.S.A., for the past year, and says
he is tied up with work above the ears.

Roy D. McMILLan is Secretary, Agricultural Adjust-
ment Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Center, Texas. He has been employed under the New Deal
AAA program since it was started in 1933, with the excep-
tion of two years, 1934 and 1935. His son has been com-
missioned in the Naval Reserve and is a student in the
Tulane Medica! School.

Gus OTTENHEMIER is in the ladies ready-to-wear busi-
ness in Little Rock, Arkansas, under the firm name of
Ottenheimer Brothers, Incorporated.

CLAUDE R. Hitt, Oak Hill, West Virginia, was recently
re-elected Mayor of Oak Hill for the ninth consecutive
two-year term. His two daughters, Millicent and Carolyn
attended the summer school at Washington and Lee last
summer.

1918

JAMEs J. [zARD is a member of the firm of Charles
Lunsford and Sons, Insurance, Roanoke, Virginia, with
offices in the American National Bank Building. His oldest
son is in the Artillery Training School.

W. P. DANIEL is superintendent of the New Albany
City Schools, New Albany, Mississippi. His son, John,
graduated from Washington and Lee in May 1942, with

| 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the B.S. degree, and is now an Ensign in the United
States Navy. His second son, Tom, is now in high school,
but expects to come to Washington and Lee for his high-
er education.

Ropert G. (“Bos”) VANCE is practicing medicine in
Boston where he has been since 1924. Both of his part-
ners are in the service. I,. Alexander Vance, B.A., 1931,
his brother, is a Lieutenant in the Navy. He finds himself
trying to look after his office and the X-ray department
of seven hospitals. His days are busy ones.

Brigadier-General Roperr V. IGnico has had many
important posts in the Army Air Corps. His address is

care of Adjutant General of the Army, Washington, D.C.

Francis H. StyLes has been American Consul Gen-
eral, Dublin, Ireland, since July 1940. His address is 15
Merrion Square, Dublin.

1919

LEONARD ‘I’. Brown, Class Agent for 1919, is. still
with Lott-Merlin, Incorporated, Paper Distributor,
Bridgeport, Connecticut. He says he got a “bang” out of
his job this year. For one thing it was responsible for
the first letter he has received from his old room-mate
since graduation.

Captain Rem Wurtre has been over-seas for fifteen
months (in May, 1943), and it seems a bit long, but he
has had a lot of fun. Reports seeing a lot of Washington
and Lee boys.

J. W. (“Biti”) Cook is with Stearns’ Electric Paste
Company, 11 West Washington Street, Chicago, Illi-
nois. His son J. W., III, who was a junior at Washington
and Lee in 1942 is now in the Army.

James R. Fain is operating the City National Bank
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He says the banking
business today is not what it was a few years ago. He
recalls many interesting details of the $.A.T.C. at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1917-1918, and sends greetings and
good wishes to his classmates, with the hope that the
present world-wide struggle will soon end, and they can
all meet together for a Victory Reunion on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus as they did in the spring of 1919.

C. Houston Parrerson, D.D., for many years a Mis-
sionary in China, is now Minister of the First Presby-
terian Church, Williamson, West Virginia.

Grorce ‘T. Mapison is now Colonel of Infantry,
U.S.A., and his class agent’s letter was forwarded to him
in North Africa, and received in very good time. He is

President of the Claims Commission and head of the
Claims Service in his section, which is a little larger than
the State of Virginia. He has two daughters, the oldest
being a student at Sweet Briar.

RAYMOND ‘TILL went back in the Navy in October,
1941, and when his letter was written in the spring, he
was at the Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, Rhode
Island. His home is in Marblehead,
greetings to the “oldtimers.”

Mass. He sends

1920

RALPH D. HUMMELL is Chairman of the Detroit Sec-
tion, American Chemical Society. He has a son Ralph D.,
Jr., born July 25, 1943. His home address is 723 Univer-
sity Place, Grosse Pointe, Michigan.

SHIRLEY J. Roppins lives at Rosalind Gardens Apart-
ments, Dobbs Ferry, New York and is practicing law in
Dobbs Ferry, Westchester County. He is married and
has a daughter now a senior in Alfred University at Al-

fred, New York.

J. Sims Epmonpson is still practicing law in Mem-
phis, ‘Tennessee, with offices in the Commerce Title
Building, under the firm name of Dixon & Edmondson.
He was married in June, 1943 to Miss Capitola Dean of
Leland, Miss.

Joun Worrn Kern is a Judge on the Tax Court of
the United States, with offices in the Internal Revenue
Building, Washington, D. C. After business hours he
supervises a bookshop operated by his wife—The In-
timate Bookshop of Georgetown, 3208 0. St., N. W.,
which he says he hopes will sometime be as good as
Henry Boley’s Book Store, and for which he solicits the
patronage of Washington and Lee men in Washington.
His son, John W., IIT, aged fifteen, is now a student at
The Episcopal High School of Virginia.

Doctor RANDOLPH SMITH is still practicing medicine
in Little Rock, Arkansas, and is also instructing first
lieutenants in the Army Medical Corps. He has one son,
who is 14, and a daughter, eight.

Levin Nock is principal of the Bloxom High School
at Bloxom, Virginia. He is now working on his Master’s
degree at Columbia University.

Joun Dryé is practicing law with the firm of Rath-
bone, Perry, Kelly, and Drye at 70 Broadway, New York
City. He writes that he visited Pinkey Grissom when he
was in ‘l'exas in February. He was elected a member
of the Alumni Board of Trustees in May, 1943.

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

HENCE YOUNG is with a synthetic rubber plant in Cuy-
ahoga Falls, Ohio, in the engineering division.

RAN CABELL, Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, has
been attached to the Fifth Naval District at the Navel
Operating Base in Norfolk, Virginia.

HoL_MEs Rotston is pastor of the West Avenue Pres-
byterian Church of Charlotte, North Carolina. His book,
The Social Message of the Apostle Paul, was chosen as
the religious book of the month for May, 1942.

CHARLES McCaBe is again serving in the Army Air
forces, now as a Captain. He was recently stationed at
the Army Air Field in Waycross, Georgia.

THOMAS StTuBsBs, who was class agent this year for
the Academic Class of 1920, is practicing law in Atlanta,
Georgia, with the firm of Dorsey, Stubbs, and Dorsey.

Jo& GLICKSTEIN is still practicing law in Jacksonville,
lorida. He writes: “I would like to have the pleasure
of entertaining any of our class who may be stationed
here, or going through Jacksonville.”

BERKELEY Cox, who was back again this year as class
agent for 1920-l, and did a very excellent job, is still
with the Legal Department of Aetna Life Insurance
Company, Hartford, Connecticut.

1921

CouURTNEY KING is practicing law in Roanoke, Virgi-
nia. Courney was one of the few alumni able to be back
on the campus for graduation in May.

Lewis MusGrove writes from New York of a recent
dance at the LePerequet suite of the Waldorf Astoria,
given by the New York alumni chapter: “The presence
of the Glee Club and children of the Alumni and their
friends lifted the party out of the category of a usual
Alumni function and greatly added to the enjoyment of
all attending. I cannot say too much in praise of the Glee
Club... their performance was excellent.”

HomeER HENDERSON, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve,
has been stationed at the Naval Procurement Office in
New Orleans.

Joun Parrerson, class agent this year for 1921-A, is
associated with the Saint Louis Branch Office of the
Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company.

Lieutenant JAMES BLANKs, Army of the United States,
has been stationed in Africa and was in Berzerte when
the town fell to the Allies.

DANIEL BLAIN is a commissioned officer in the United
States Public Health Service with the rank of Surgeon.
He is medical director for the War Shipping Adminis-
tration, and is operating numerous rest centers for
torpedoed seamen. Dan has one son, five years old.

1922

Joun CuiLp has recently returned to Charleston,
West Virginia, after living in Clearwater, Florida for
two years, recovering from an illness. He is now Chief
Kngineer for Mining and land companies in central and
southern West Virginia. His address is 3700 Noyes Ave-
nue, Charleston.

RAYMOND SMITH has been with the Vick Chemical
Company since March 5, 1941. His home is at 1 Foun-
tain Square, Larchmont, New York. He is married and
has a boy and two girls, ages 10, 8, and six months.

RosErt D. Howerron is the newly chosen president
of the local alumni chapter in Chicago. He is with the
Calca Chemical Division, American Cyanamide Com-
pany, 146 West Kinzie Street, Chicago, Illinois.

JAMES MaAptson is still practicing law in Bastrop,
louisiana. Two of his brothers are in the Service : Geroge,
1919, a Colonel in North Africa, and “Cooter,” 1929,
stationed at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.

Major Marr HENbERsON is with the Armored Field
Artillery and has been training soldiers at Fort Sill and at
Fort Knox.

TED Brown is a Captain in the Army Quartermaster
Corps and has been stationed at Charlottee, North Caro-
lina. Ted is married and his home is at Barnwell, South
Carolina.

CHARLES WartTsON is doing research work with the
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio. He
is married and has one daughter, Kitty.

Lieutenant Birt Wiciiams, of the Naval Reserve,
has been located in Washington at the Bureau of Yards
and Docks.

CHARLES HANDLEY is at Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
where he is an associate biologist of the United States
Department of the Interior Fish and Wild Life Service.
He has three sons, the oldest being 19.

Troy MussELWuire, class agent for the Academic
Class of 1922, is an attorney in Orlando, Flordia, with

offices in the Williams Building.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1923
RAYMOND SNIVELY is vice-president and secretary of
the Hagerstown Leather Company at Hagerstown, Mary-
land. ‘’load” served as class agent for the Academic
Class of 1923 this past year.

Trp Harris has been in the play business in New York
City. He was recently expecting to be commissioned in
the Naval Reserve, however.

Lieutenant RayMonp WICKERSHAM, Chaplain in the
Naval Reserve, has been with the Naval Advance Base
Depot at Gulfport, Mississippi. His family—three boys
and one girl—is living at Pass Christian, Mississippi.

Grorcr Goop, who has been doing designing work in
New York and who exhibited abroad before the war, is
now a Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, stationed with
the Navy Department in Washington.

At Prerorri certainly has his share of the jobs at
Chelsea, Massachusetts, Senior High School. He is teach-
ing Bookkeeping and Italian in addition to coaching base-
ball and serving as an accountant for a nearby firm.

Forrest McGILt is still manager of the Florida Branch
Office of the Prudential Insurance Company of America.
He lives in Lakeland, Florida.

Emmett PoInpEXTER, Class Agent for the Law Class
of 1923, is with the law firm of Iselin, Riggs, Ferris, and
Mygatt, 120 Broadway, New York City.

Cyrus Hatt is Judge of the Interdemiate Court of
Kanawha County, West Virginia, with offices in Charles-
ton.

1924

Written by Class Agent, GoopRICH SALE
Letters this year are noteworthy for the number of our
men in the service and the large number who are doing
more than one job at home.

Lieutenant-Commander Jok McMarn, Medical Corps,
is at Great Lakes Naval Training Station. At present
his wife and two daughters live with him near Lake
Michigan just north of Chicago.

Homer (“Rocky”) Hott is busy practicing law in the
same firm of which John Morrison and your Class Agent,
Goodridge Sale with others, are members. In the same
building here are a good many Washington and Lee
Alumni, Including Leo Fagan in the general office of
the Atlantic Greyhound Lines; Ralph Burch in the insur-
ance business; Andrew Payne, Vice-President and Trust
Officer of the Central Trust Company and a director of

the Kanawha Valley Bank; and Chapman Revercomb,
lawyer and freshman United States Senator. Chapman
Revercomb was four or five years before our time at
Washington and Lee but had two brothers, Horace, and
E.P.G. Revercomb, in our class.

Jok SILVERSTIEN practices law, but devotes most of
his time with his father and brother in the scrap business
of the Midwest Steel Corporation, which has yards at
Charleston, West Virginia and in Nashville, ‘Tennessee.
Incidentally, he is a railroad magnate, being president of
a short line in East Tennessee.

Dorr TUCKER is expediter for Ford, Bacon, and Davis,
construction firm with numerous plant jobs that have
kept Dorr hustling around the country recently.

WALTER Fiick and JoHN Hiccins WILLIAMS con-
tinue on the faculty at Washington and Lee, but give
us no opinions, even confidential, as to how the co-ed
situation last summer and the Army situation since then
have affected them.

Captain THomAs WILSON (“BILL”) ERWINn joined the
Army in Texas from Waco, where he had been in the
moving picture business since graduating from the Uni-
versity of Texas Law School in 1927.

Lieutenant VickErs Warts reports that the Army
classification system is a remarkable thing ; that he enlisted
last July as a buck private from civil life, as a lawyer
and realtor, and was successively thereafter made an
officer and a gentleman, an engineer, and a farmer for
his Army camp in Oklahoma.

CAMERON SHROPSHIRE is a Captain in the Army Air
Corps.

Lieutenant-Colonel CHARLIE BARRETT is stationed
overseas with an airborne division. He is with the Inspec-
tor General, and says “Since the last time I reported I
have encountered two Washington and Lee officers, Rene
Tallichet who was the general’s aide and H. L. Little,
who took Tallichet’s place when he moved on up. As
their offices were next to mine we did considerable remi-
niscing and read the bulletins with interest.”

Captain Jimmigé Hurr is Finance Officer located now
at Atlanta, Georgia, and reports that he held a two-man
reunion with Major Frank Switzer recently.

Major Jimmy SEALs is in India.

“SKEET” FisHER was Deputy Clerk of the Supreme

put) I
Court of Appeals, but joined the Navy and was back
recently on a visit, very much of a gob.

[ 28 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Lieutenant-Commander JERRY Lonc, Medical Corps,
is somewhere in the Pacific.

Colonel ALEX GATEs joined up a couple of years ago
and is now with the Army in England.

Captain “Buck” Avis was last heard from with the
Army in Florida.

Joun GREEN, class agent for the Law Class of 1924,
is practicing law in Knoxville, Tennessee, with offices

in the Park National Bank Building.

CHARLES COHEN is now living in New York City at
475 Fifth Avenue.

TURNER Merrirvt is acting as Chief Clerk and Signal
Property Clerk at the Prisoner of War Camp, Aliceville,
Alabama.

GEORGE S. SPRAGINS is manager of the West Arcadia
sranch of NSA, Arcadia, California. He is married
and has two children a girl, Virginia, 14, and a boy
George, Jr., six. His home is at 1024 Balboa Drive,
Areadia, California.

1925

s3BUCE FF, GANNAWAY, Class Agent for 1925, has just
been returned by his Bishop for his fourth year as Minis-
ter of Hendricks Methodist Church, Jacksonville, Florida.
In the bulletin which he sent to the members of his class
giving a “Digest” of the letters he received, he thanks
his class for giving him an increased response in each of
the four years he has served as their agent.

Written by Class Agent, Bruck F. GANNAWAY

Captain K. E. Rossoroucnu, Officers’ Club, Quarter-
master School, Camp Lee, Virginia, writes, “* I don't
believe there are an awful lot of our men in service, at
least I don’t know of them if they are, but you can rest
assured that this member of the class is enjoying this
war to the fullest extent, and will enjoy it more so when
| get on the other side.” ““Red” is making the grade, and
we know he will give a good account of himself.

Candidate Newton R. BLAck, Company 44, 3rd
S.T.R., Fort Benning, Georgia, writes that the training
is mighty stiff for a fellow his age, but that he expects
to complete his Officer’s training by July 1. “Newt”
enlisted in the Infantry last November.

Major ALLAN P. SLoaANn, Box 4114, Atlanta, Georgia,
says he doesn't get much army life, since they put him
in the Equipment Pool, dealing in construction machin-
ery, the work he has been carrying on for fifteen years.

Allen suggests that we look forward to a reunion on our
db5
twentieth anniversary, June 1945. Keep this in mind.

CANDIDATE E.. T. McHENry, Co. C, Officers’ Candid-
ate School, No. 2, Army Administration School, Grin-
nell, lowa, expected to receive his commission in May, so
we hope all went well, and that he is now a Lieutenant.

LIEUTENANT Marvin HumMeEr, USNR, Utility
Squadron Two, Care Fleet Post Office, San Francisco,
California, left San Francisco on January 10 and ar-
rived at his post on the 20th. He is happily situated, but
that is all we know about his place of duty. Where would
you be if you walked, rode, swam, or flew for ten days
from San Francisco? That’s where Marvin is.

CapTain WILLIAM Carro_t MeEap, Air Regulating
Squadron No. 4, Marine Air Corps Base, Camp Kear-
ney, San Diego, Calif., was recently married. His ad-
dress now is uncertain, but mail will be forwarded to
him.

LIEUTENANT WaLton REx, USNR, Care Cadet Re-
giment, U. S. Naval Air Station, Grosse Ile, Michigan,
took his training in Rhode Island, and then was stationed
in Michigan all winter. No place for a Florida “‘Croaker.”
Walton says he would like to be moved South, where the
weather is even hot—But not too hot! That’s our wish,
too, Walton, and like you, we'll all be happy when the
day comes that this “mess” is over, and you and all the
rest can get back home, and we can get to work recon-
structing this old world.

Gipson WitrneErspoon, 716 Threefoot Building, Mer-
idan, Mississippi, is still attorney for the United States
Fidelity Company and engaged in the private practice of
law. He reports the birth of a daughter, Mary Elizabeth,
born on February 25, 1943.

“ARL MATTINGLY is ‘Treasurer as well as Registrar of
the University, and in addition, has numerous duties in
connection with the two Army units now located on the
campus.

GEORGE CLARK, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, has
been stationed at the Naval Air Station in Miami since
his graduation from Quonset Point, Rhode Island.

Birt McRircui£, who was class agent for the Law
Class of 1925 this past year, is with the Guaranty Trust
Company of New York, at the One Hundred Forty
Broadway.

PERRY NORMAN is with the Gulf Division of the West-
ern Union Telegraph Company in Dallas, Texas, worry-
ing “over Western Union’s problems in the field of
wire communications.

[29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1926

The promotion of Captain Robert W. Moore from
the grade of First Lieutenant was announced recently
‘Somewhere in England” by Major General Henry J. F.
Miller, Commanding General, VIII Air Force Service
Command. Captain Moore was formerly commercial
manager of the Ohio Power Company before entering
active service June 11, 1942. His wife, Mrs. Dorothy
B. Moore, lives at 1304 Gallia Street, Portsmouth, Ohio.

Dr. Henry Ler, Major in the Army Medical Corps,
has been stationed at Nichols General Hospital in Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Louis Wick, Captain in the Army Medical Corps is
attached to the WAC induction center in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

Emmetrr MacCork_e, Lieutenant-Commander in the
Naval Reserve, is stationed with the Navy Department,
Washington, D. C. He has a son, Emmett W. Jr., three
years old. His home is at 1307 Seaton Lane, Falls
Church, Virginia. He was a visitor to the campus during
the summer.

Eart L. VALENTINE, Class Agent for ’26 Law, 1s
practicing law in Lexington, Virginia. His son, Earl L.,
Jr., age 15, will graduate from Irving School, Tarry-
town, New York, in June, 1943, and expects to enter
Washington and Lee.

James Kay Tuomas, member of the law firm of Hill,
Thomas and Morris, Security Building, Charleston, West
Virginia, is now a Captain, Army Air Force Intelligence
in the United States. He was elected Attorney-General
of the State of West Virginia in the November ’43 elec-
tion.

1927

Lieutenant Commander Ruta Wuittty, U.S.N.R.,
has been on active duty in the Navy for 3% years and
says he feels like he has been in uniform most of his life.
Before entering the Navy he was with the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation. His residence address is Ward-
man Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.

Jim Wixxorn, class agent for the Academic Class of
1927, is practicing law with the firm of Wilbourn, Mil-
ler, and Wilbourn in Meridian, Mississippi. He is mar-
ried and has two children, Richard, 6, and Margaret, 3.

Rev. Ropert Witsur Simmons has been minister of
the Federated Churches, Corvallis, Oregon, since May,
1941. He is married and has two sons, age 10 and 7, re-
spectively.

3iLL Pore is a Captain in the Army Air Forces and
has been serving as squadron commander of an air base
in Arizona.

GEORGE SUMMERSON is manager of the Hotel General
Shelby in Bristol, Virginia. He is a captain in the Vir-
ginia State Guard.

GARLAND Davis, Captain in the Army of the United
States, has been stationed in California, where he is in
charge of an Ordnance Depot. Home address 1600 N.
Baker, Stockton, California.

LIEUTENANT ALLEN Harris, United States Naval
Reserve, has been on active sea duty in the Atlantic.
However, he is now stationed with the Pacific Fleet,
attached to the Commander-in-Chief.

Tom Harris, Lieutenant in the Navy Medical Corps,
has been stationed in California. He has a young son,
two years old.

GEORGE VARNEY, Class Agent for 27-L, is practicing
law in Kittery, Maine.

1928

Hotiis S. Sporrs was for ten years Director of Ath-
letics and Coach at Adelphi Academy in Brooklyn, New
York. Resigned last June and for a year was State Super-
visor of Recreation for W. P. A., in Virginia, and has
recently assumed the position of General Agent for 5t.
John’s Guild, 1 KE. 42nd Street, New York City. His
home is 222 Park Avenue, Manhasset, L. I. He is mar-
ried and has two children, a boy 12, and a girl 6.

Tom Bryant is practicing law in Orangeburg, South
Carolina. He has two sons, aged five and two.

Hersert Harriss BuTLeR is now a Lieutenant Col-
onel, Military Personnel Battalion, Signal Corps, U.S.A.,
having been formerly with the Field Artillery. He is
married and has a son, Herbert H. Butler, Jr. His home
address is 1605 Oakcrest Drive, Alexandria, Virginia.

Joun Seymour LETCHER is now a Lieutenant-Col-
onel, in the South Pacific. The following is an excerpt
from a letter received from a former Washingon and
Lee track captain and a subordinate in Colonel Letcher’s
command :

“As you may or may not know, Colonel Letcher en-
joys an enviable record in Marine Corps artillery circles
—is very G. I.—knows his profession thoroughly and
has the confidence of his subordinates. He is not just an
average American. He won't let his battalion have any
beer or liquor, believes in not becoming equipment-

[ 30 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

heavy, but rather advocates elimination of burdensome
gear and the use of few but hard rules. He has the re-
putation for being able to out-hike his men, and has a
ruddier complexion than any of them.

“Frankly, we are mighty lucky to have such a valu-
able regimental executive. Men must have leaders and
just since Colonel Letcher’s promotion, though no phy-
sical change has been effected, there is a confident spirit
permeating the subordinate officer’s ranks. So much for
“Cappy’s’” Colonel. He more than lives up to his best
heritage.”

Rosert IF. Hows is in the Army Air Corps. He has
moved his family back to Helena, Arkansas for the du-
ration.

CHARLES FE. BRANHAM is a Captan U.S.A., stationed
in Washington, D. C., with the Foreign Liaison Branch,
Military Intelligence Service.

ALEX Bare, Lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps,
has recently been seeing the inside of a hospital as a pa-
tient in the La Garde General Hospital, of New Orleans.

PHILIP SPROUSE is now attached to the American Em-
bassy in Chungking, China. He receives mail in care of
the Department of State in Washington, D. C.

WepssTER GILBERT has been associated with an air-
plane company in North Ireland for over a year. His
home is in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1929

ArtHuur D. Simmons lives at 2 Melrose Street,
Adams, Mass. He is in the furniture and undertaking
business; is married and has two girls aged three and
seven,

Mayor Georce H. Goopwin, Infantry, 111 Armored
Corps Headquarters, Camp Polk, Louisiana, has been in
Special Service work since entering the Army in May,
1941. He regrets that he could not have attended the
School for Special Service at Washington and Lee. When
his letter was written he was Special Service Officer for
the above camp.

J. MILLER SHERWOOD is a Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., start-
ing his active duty in February, 1943, working in connec-
tion with aircraft maintenance. His permanent address
is Gibson Island, Maryland.

Irwin T. SANDERS, class agent for ’29, formerly Pro-
fessor of Sociology, University of Kentucky, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, is now a Balkan Specialist in the Office

of Foreign Agriculural Relations, Washington, D. C. He
served for some years as Dean of the College for Men,
The American College, Sofia, Bulgaria. His home ad-
dress is 4409 No. 15th Street, Arlington, Virginia.

WiILtt1AM HARRINGTON has been reported a prisoner
of the Japs. About the 15th of September a card from
him was received by his mother and father saying he
was in excellent health.

JAMEs Goutp Rircnery is living at 416 Christopher
Place, Louisville, Kentucky. He is Methods Engineer
with Curtis Wright Corporation, located in St. Louis,
Missouri, and Louisville, Kentucky. He is married and
has two children.

JAMEs HEwry is in the Army’s Quartermaster Corps,
now serving in the Southwest Pacific. Jim has been in
the Army for almost three years, and has spent a good
bit of that time in Australia. His home is in Benton, Ark-
ansas.

LIEUTENANT Ropert B. Ler has been attending the
Army Supply Officers’ Training School at the Harvard
Graduate School of Business.

LIEUTENANT JoHN BELL ToweELt, United States
Naval Reserve, has been stationed in Savannah, Georgia,
with the Supervisor of Shipbuilding.

Captain WALTER N. PHarr is with the Army Air
Transport Command and Flies Army C-54’s (Douglas
DC-4’s) over most of the world. His address is Ameri-
can Airlines, LaGuardia Airport, New York. He was
married June 11, 1943, to Miss Doris Mencelson of
Grosse Pointe Shores, Michigan.

WitiiAm Watson, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve,
has been assigned as aide to Admiral Snyder, and has
been an advisor to the Navy on oil since his return to
this country after the fall of Rangoon, Burma.

1930

MERLE Suter has worked for the Philadelphia office
of the General Electric Company as Field Engineer since
December, 1941. He has lived in Portsmouth, Virginia
since January, 1943. He is married and has one daughter,
Helen Thayer Suter, born October 31, 1941.

Mayor Harry FE. Traiv gives his service address as
Otres. 21, Fort Bliss, Texas.

Kppr— GRAVEs is a Lieutenant (s.g.) in the Naval Re-
serve, attached to the staff of the Commander of the
South Pacific Fleet.

[ St |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Docror GEORGE Crappock, Captain in the Army
Medical Corps, has been stationed overseas since March.

LIEUTENANT (S.G.) FRED Swink has been studying
in St. Augustine, Florida, afer a year of active sea duty
with the Coast Guard. He was married in July of 1942
to Miss Margaret Long of Westboro, Massachusetts.

sILL FreLps is a Lieutenant in the Naval Air Corps.
His home is in Greenville, Alabama.

Newton B. Sruvts is a Lieutenant in the U. 5. Navy.
He has been in charge of a gun crew of twenty men,
convoying supplies to our bases in various parts of the
world. His home address is 610 Birchard Avenue, [re-
mont, Ohio,

1931

CHANDLER W. Gorpon moved to Asheville, North
Carolina in August, ’42, and is now in the lumber busi-
ness with his father, under the firm name of the Gordon
Lumber Company. His residence address is 25 Linden
Avenue, Asheville, North Carolina. He has two children,
Tommy in his fifth year, and Lynda Sue, a little over 2%.

BEvERLY J. LAMBERT, JR., is with the Army Air Force
Technical School, Sioux Falls, South Dakota. His mail-
ing address is Holly Grove, Arkansas. He has been in
the Air Force since January, 1943. He has three sons,
severly, III, age 10, Hayden, age 7, and David, age 4.

RANK BrEADy, who did an outstanding job this year
as class agent for the Academic Class of 1931, 1s as-
sociated with the Trident Brokerage Company at 100
Hudson Street, New York City.

Ben Ayars, Captain in the Army of the United States,
recently attended the Judge Advocate General’s School
at the University of Michigan, and has been serving
since then in New Orleans.

Joun Myross is attending the Navy Training School
for Chaplains at William and Mary College, Willams-
burg, Virginia.

GRAHAM GILLocK, Army of the United States, has
been stationed at Camp Stewart, Georgia.

Mayor RENo Porter, of the Army Medical Corps,
has been stationed for some time at the Lovell General
Hospital, Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

LIEUTENANT JOSEPH SHAROVE was practicing law in
Richmond, Virginia, before entering the Army. He re-
ceived his commission in the Quartermaster Corps in
February, 1943.

KENNETH HickMAN, Army of the United States, is
in the Field Artillery and has recently been stationed at
Kort Bragg, North Carolina.

LIEUTENANT Harotp Weston has been instructing
in staff duties at Camp Ritchie, Maryland.

GeorcE LApsLEy, Lieutenant in the Army of the
United States, has recently been attached to the Tank
Destroyer Board at Camp Hood, ‘Texas.

PENNY RAFLO is now in the Army and has recently
been stationed at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri. His
home is in Wytheville, Virginia.

ArTHUR Kratss, Army of the United States, has re-
cently been attending Officers’ Candidate School at the
Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Maryland.

JAmeEs Martin, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, has
heen stationed at the Naval Operations Base in Norfolk,
Virginia.

1932

Joun Ciinton Harris, who served this year as class
agent for the Academic Class of 1932, was associated
with the Scottsboro, Alabama, Wholesale Grocery Com-
pany before entering the Army of the United States in
the Spring.

Mayor DONALD THOMPSON is attached to the Bureau
of Public Relations with the War Department in Wash-
ington, serving as Chief Continental Liaison Branch.

CHARLES DAvIDSON is a Lieutenant (senior

grade) in the Naval Reserve, stationed out from New
York.

now

LIEUTENANT LAWRENCE Roosk, of the Medical
Corps, is stationed at the headquarters of the Fourth
Service Command’s Rehabilitation Center at Fort Jack-
son, South Carolina. He was married last January.

GrorGE ScHNATH, M.D. who was practicing in Evan-
ston, Illinois, prior to May, 1943, is now a Lieutenant
(senior grade) in the Navy Dental Corps. He was mar-
ried December 5, 1942, to Miss Annabelle Herchert of
Evanston. His permanent address is 1223 Maple Ave-
nue, Evanston, Illinois.

SHERWOOD WISsE, now a Lieutenant in the Naval Re-
serve, is stationed at the Headquarters of the Eighth
Naval District, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Paut Worrorp, Captain in the Marine Air Corps,
has been recently stationed in California. Home address
Llewellwyn Wood, Johnson City, Tennessee.

[ 32 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

CAPTAIN FRANK SmirH has recently been stationed
at the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, for ad-
vance training.

LIKUTENANT RICHARD PARMALEE, of the Naval Re-
serve, was stationed in San Diego, California, as com-
missary officer after having attended the Navy Supply
Corps School at Harvard.

JAMES MERRICK is now a Lieutenant (junior grade)
in the Naval Reserve.

CAPTAIN RAN Suievps, of the Army’s Medical Corps,
is stationed in the Far East, where he is doing surgery
and learning Chinese. He was married before leaving
for China. He writes of seeing Phil Sprouse and Andy
Roy rather frequently.

MéEtvin H. Kempton is with the U. S. Army Force-
Technical Training Command. He has had unusual train-
ing for this service, having served from °32 to 34 as
instructor and supervisor of inmate teachers, Sing Sing
Prison School, Ossiningin, New York; °34 to ’38, Di-
rector of Vocational Education, Sing Sing Prison; *40
to °42, Assistant Principal of National Defense Voca-
tional Education and Principal of the Yonkers School
of Aviation Manufacturing, Yonkers, New York.

ALBERT PEERY, who served as class agent for the Law
Class of 1932 this year, is practicing law in ‘Tazewell,
Virginia.

Loyd RicHMOND is still Personnel Manager of the
Montgomery Ward mail order house in Chicago.

PauL A. (Jerry) Hotstrern, Lieutenant in the avia-
tion pre-flight program of the United States Naval Re-
serve, has recently been stationed at Chapel Hill, North
Carolina and at Athens, Georgia.

LIEUTENANT Crockett Hucues, of the United
States Naval Reserve, has been stationed at the indoc-
trination school at Fort Schuyler, New. York.

Henry MacKenzie, Lieutenant in the Naval Re-
serve, was recently stationed in Frederick, Maryland, for
advanced training.

Ross L. MALong, Jr., is a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the
Navy. He graduated from induction School at Fort
Schuyler, New York, in the same class with Henry Mac-
Kenzie and Crockett Hughes. His home address is 112
5. Kentucky Roswell, New Mexico.

Bos McBripE is practicing law with the firm

of McBride and McBride in Hillsboro, Ohio.

1933

Jes Stuart Darpy, JR., is a Sales Manager for Cut-
ler-Hammer, Incorporated, manufacturers of electrical
control equipment. His address is 711 Potrero Avenue,
San Francisco, California.

Aucustus PEMBROKE THOMSON received his com-
mission as a Lieutenant (j.g.), United States Naval
Reserve, on July 8, 1943. He is located at the U. S. Nav-
al Training School, Princeton, New Jersey.

Dr. Josepn B. Warton, now a Lieutenant in the
Navy Medical Corps, has been doing bone surgery in
the South Pacific area for over a year now.

Marrngw Prev Rivers, who was with the United
States Marine Corps on Guadalcanal, has been resting
up in the South Pacific.

Bos Smiru, Lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps,
has been serving as squadron surgeon for an Air Service
group. His small son, Robert, Jr., was a year old last
May.

ArtTHuR LAMAR has been serving for over a year as
a staff officer on the flagship of the Commander-in-Chief
of the Pacific Fleet.

Topp DEVAN, after three years in the Army, has
joined the Regular Army Medical Corps. He has re-
cently completed a course at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsyl-
vania in the Medical Field Service School, for combat
duty. When his letter was written he was waiting orders
to a Field Unit.

Joun CULLEy, now a Lieutenant (j. g.), has been in
the Navy for over a year. At present he is stationed over-
seas.

Jor F. Bear is an Ensign, Naval Air Station, Seattle,
Washington.

JEROME FRAmPprTom is associated with Framptom and
Son, funeral directors, in Federalsburg, Maryland. Jerry
served as class agent this year for the Law Class of 1933.

GEORGE Parsons, Army of the United States, was
recently stationed at Fort Monroe, Virginia.

Joun GriFFitTHs is serving with the Second Army
Air Force.

LigUTENANT AL Symonps has been station at Camp
Hulen, Texas as Automotive Repair Shop Officer. His
wife and two-year-old son are with him.

IRVING BrIcKEN, in the Army of the United States,
has recently been stationed on the West Coast.

[ 33 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1934

Foster PALMER, who did an excellent job as class
agent this year for the Academic Class of 1934, is still
located with the Harvard University Library in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts.

Harvey Prive has been training with the Army Air
Forces in Florida.

Evererr Tucker, Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces,
has been stationed at the Headquarters of the Second
Ferrying Command.

Hotmes Dyer is an Ensign in the United States
Coast Guard, assigned to anti-submarine patrol.

FrepD SAGER was with the first marines to land on
Guadalcanal. His home address is 228 Virginia Avenue,
Danville Virginia.

Joun Barre, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, has
been in the South Pacific with the Marines, serving as a
doctor.

RucELEY DEVAN, Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve,
officer in charge of the Naval Procurement Branch Of-
fice in Charleston, West Virginia.

Taytor JONES, who served as class agent this year
for the Law Class of 1934, is now a Lieutenant (j. g.)
in the Naval Reserve. He took his indoctrination course
at Dartmouth.

LAYNE Forp, of the United States Army Signal
Corps, has been attending radio reception and trans-
mission school in Montgomery, West Virginia. His

home address is Box 534, Grafton, West Virginia.

1935

LoyvaL Paut (“IKg’’) GassMAN is in the Army
OQuartmaster Corps and has been stationed in Wyoming.

LIEUTENANT JoHN D. Sponr is in charge of com-
munications for the Navy Department Field Branch Bu-
reau of Supplies and Accounts. His home address is
95 Fairmont Avenue, Chatham, New York.

LIEUTENANT Henry RAVENHORST is in the Army
Signal Corps, and is receiving additional training in Lex-
ington, Kentucky.

LIEUTENANT Kart WILLARD is with the Naval Air
Combat Intelligence, attached to the Pacific Fleet.

Lewis Harvey, who was stationed for two years in the
Canal Zone, is now an aviation cadet at the Army Air
Corps Center in Nashville, Tennessee.

W. Duncan McDavin is a Lieutenant (j. g.) in the
United States Navy. His forwarding address is 1409 FE.
Lakeview Avenue, Pensacola, Florida.

Leroy HopceEs is an Ensign in the Navy's Signal
Corps and has recently been stationed in Central Amer-
ica.

Winston Brown is a member of the Legal Depart-
ment of United Gas Pipe Line Company in Shreveport,
Louisiana. He was married on August 30, 1941 to Miss
Ann Land Scovell of DeLand, Florida, daughter of T.
H. Scovell, alumnus of the Class of 1919.

Captain HArvar Situ, Army of the United States,
has recently been stationed at Camp Roberts, California.

1936

JAMEs Prick, who served again this year as Class
Agent for the Academic Class of 1936, is now a Chap-
lain in he United States Navy.

Dr. Rocers Myers, Lieutenant in the Navy Medical
Corps, has been attached to the Naval Hospital at Cor-
- “ © pcan © Ts
pus Christi, Texas. He was on the campus for a few
hours this summer on his way to his new station.

ENSIGN CHARLES WILKERSON, of the Naval Reserve
has been training at Princeton for active sea duty.

FLretrcHER MAyNarpD is a Lieutenant, junior grade,
in the Naval Air Corps, stationed in Florida.

KENNETH MACDONALD is a Lieutenant in the United
Sates Army Medical Corps, stationed overseas.

Epwarp Powe.v holds a commission as Ensign in
the United States Navy.

1937

ALBERT L,USTBADER is now in the Army of the United
States, attached to a Special Service Detail, in foreign
service.

Anpy Baur has been stationed with the Army Air
Forces at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri,

Kent Foster, who has been a member of the Penn
State faculty, is now a Second Lieutenant in the Army
Air Forces.

Everett Martin has been with the United States
Navy since November, 1942.

EUGENE CLAyTon, Ensign in the Naval Reserve, has
been training for duty with the Motor ‘Torpedo Boat
Service.

[ 34]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

LIEUTENANT Ropert GRAHAM is now stationed over-
seas with the Army of the United States.

Captain H. C. (“Scorrie”) Macoon, of he Army
Air Forces, has been serving as Assisant Supervisor of
an Air Corps Training Detachment in Alabama.

LIEUTENANT Puit WEINSIER received his commis-
sion at Officers Candidate School, Camp Lee Virginia,
and was assigned to the Port Quartermaster at the New
York Port of Embarkation.

1938

LIEUTENANT THomMAS Harr BAKER, received his
M.D. degree fro Tulane University University Medical
School and has been with the Army since August 21,
1943. He is stationed, temporarily, at Fitzsimmons Gen-
eral Hospital, Denver, Colorado.

Tom CorTrinGHAM recently received his Lieutenant’s
commission in the Army Signal Corps at Fort Mon-
mouth, New Jersey.

EpwArD Kaczka recently received his commission as
a Second Lieutenant in the Army’s Chemical Warfare
Service.

Prick BERRYMAN has been training in the Army Air
lorces at Brooks Field, Texas.

ENSIGN GERALD LIVELY is now a second officer aboard
a sub-chaser in the Pacific fleet.

«
‘

I.NSIGN Ropert BaAsiLeé, of the Naval Reserve, is
presently located at Annapolis, Maryland.

LIEUTENANT JOHN Cook is a scout pilot serving with
a cruiser in the Pacific fleet.

Mayor Rosert THomas, of the Marine Corps, has
returned to active duty in the South Pacific with a Mar-
ine Raider Battalion.

1939

LIEUTENANT Louis E. Lone, Jr., is a veteran of the
Middle East fighting front. He was awarded the Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with one Oak
leaf Cluster, and the Purple Heart for his exploits dur-
ing nine months of combat, participating in 39 missions.
Lieutenant Long has bombed many Axis targets which
now are in allied hands, or where allied troops are at-
tacking by land. He has blasted Crete, Messina, Pal-
ermo, Catania, Augusta, Syracuse, Naples, Bari, Reg-
gio, de Callabrio, Tobruk, El Aghelila, Benghazi, ‘Tri-
poli, Sfax and Tunis.

CORPORAL GERALD F. ABERNETHY has been stationed
in North Africa since December, 1942, He is in the Sup-
ply Division. Twice a week from eight to ten in the even-
ing, Gerald accompanies their doctor to a little French
house where all the villagers come with ills and sick
babies. He interprets for the doctor. A delicious dinner
and a big cigar are their compensation, but he writes,
that in that area, the dinner means more than money,
because food is so scarce.

CHARLIE SEMPLE did a fine job as Class Agent for
1939-A. He is now employed in the Broadway Office of
the Citizens National Bank, Louisville, Kentucky.

LIEUTENANT ALAN Buxton Hoppks spent a week on
the campus recuperating from wounds received in the
Pacific. Lieutenant Hobbes said the old campus never
looked so beautiful to him as it did on this trip—after
his experiences in the Solomons. He wears the Asiatic,
the Presidential and the Purple Heart citations. Two
stars show two major engagements with the Japs.

Tom CRAWFORD, now a Ist Lieutenant, was stationed
on Guadalcanal for some months.

CHARLES GUTHRIE is a Lieutenant in the Army’s
Quartermaster Corps in charge of a Truck Driving Divi-
sion overseas. He was recently promoted from the rank
of Second Lieutenant to that of First Lieutenant.

LIEUTENANT JOHN PEarRsOoN, of the United States
Naval Air Corps, is presently stationed at Pensacola,
after having returned from duty in Iceland.

CAPTAIN CHRISTOPHER KELLER has returned to this
country after having seen service in the Southwest Paci-
fic with the United States Marine Corps.

“NSIGN Bruce SEDDON has been attending the Naval
Training School at Cornell University.

CAPTAIN CHARLES LyKEs, who has been in the Army
for approximately three years, is presently stationed in
Louisiana.

1940

Captain WILLIAM E. Buxton has been placed in
command of a fighter squadron in the Panama area.
Captain Buxton has seen duty with several units of the
Fighter Command since his arrival in Panama in 1941.
On one occasion he was rescued from shark-infested
waters by Brigadier General Russell E. Randall, com-
mander general of the Fighter Command, when the
Captain’s Fighter plane crashed at sea during an opera-
tional flight.

[ 35 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

LIEUTENANT MARSHALL PICARD was with the United
States Marine Corps in the Solomon Islands. He would
like to hear from classmates or fraternity brothers. His
address is Lt. M. U. Pickard, Co. E, 2nd Bn., 3rd Mar-
ines, Care Fleet P.O., San Francisco, Calif.

STANFoRD SCHEWEL Class Agent for 1940-Law,
writes from the Office of Strategic Services, U. 5. Army
Forces in the Middle East: ““Even over here, thousands
of miles away from Lexington, I found evidence of
Washington and Lee. Quite often I run into Special
Service Officers, and as soon as I tell them I’m a Wash-
ington and Lee man they launch into lyrical praise of
Lexington and Washington and Lee, and everything
about the place. They've all said, ‘If I hadn't gone to
such or such a school I would certainly have liked to have
gone to Washington and Lee.’ And if all of them who say
they are going to send their sons there actually do, and
if they have as many sons as they threaten to have when
they get home and have an opportunity to commence
working on that worthy undertaking, W. & L. will be
full to overflowing for many years to come.

“Aside from these ‘pseudo alumni, the only other
Washington and Lee man I’ve encountered in this part
of the world has been Carter Glass, III. I ran into him
on the porch of that very famous hotel (name censored )
where it is said you run into everybody you know.”

LIEUTENANT (j.g.) Lea Booru has recovered from
his basketball injury of last winter and is now attached
to the staff of the Commander of the South Pacific
Fleet. Lea was class agent again this year for 1940-A.

LIEUTENANT JoHN Hopkins was seriously wounded
in the Papua Campaign. Was hospitalized for about four
months.

¢nstiGN Hat Warrerson has been attending the Sub-
marine Chaser Training Center in Miami, Florida.

Oxuiver ‘TAyLor, Aviation Cadet in the Army Air
Forces, has recently been transferred from San Antonio,
Texas, to Oklahoma City.

Hersert LirrLe is overseas, serving as Aide-de-
Camp to General Keerans of the 82nd Division. He has
one small son whom he has not seen.

Caprain WILLIAM Buxton has been on foreign duty
for over two years now as executive officer of a fighter
squadron.

Wa ter GuTHriEé has been with the Army Supply
Officers Training School at Harvard’s Graduate School
of Business Administration.

Don Buck received his commission recently at Camp
Davis, North Carolina, after having been stationed for
7 months in Newfoundland.

LIEUTENANT (J.G.) TED DoNALDsON is on duty with
the Pacific Fleet. In the course of his service, he has
been in nine major naval battles.

LIEUTENANT DARNELL DICKENS recently received
his commission in the Army Quartermaster Corps.

Bos GayLe, of the Army Air Forces, has been re-
ceiving training as an Aviation Cadet.

GrEorGE Foore, of the United States Marine Reserve,
has recently been promoted to the rank of Captain and
transferred to the South Pacific.

1941

Loure A. PATERNO is practicing law in Charleston,
West Virginia, with offices in the Security Building.

EnsicN Murray Situ has been seeing active duty
aboard the U.S.S. Doran.

LIEUTENANT JOHN WEATHERS has been holding down
an important job as Post Quartermaster at the Basic
Flying School in Courtland, Alabama.

KENNETH Mox.ey has been stationed in England
for over a year with the Army Air Forces.

LIEUTENANT Tom BRIZENDINE is with the United
States Marine Corps, somewhere in the Southwest Paci-

fic.

Lupron Avery, a Field Artillery Captain in the U. 5.
Army, was stationed at Fort Roberts in May, 1942.

CHARLEs F. BAGLEy, JR., was, a year ago, a Lieuten-
ant in the Army Air Corps and serving with the Ferry
Command “to and from Australia.”

Ensicn Joun T. Perry, Jr., of the Naval Air Corps,
was graduated from the Naval Air Training Center,
Corpus Christi, Texas.

Rosert S. JUNGER is an Aviation Cadet at Seymour
Field, North Carolina.

LIEUTENANT Brit Morcan has served with both the
Pacific Fleet and the Carribean Fleet, and is now com-
manding officer aboard a minesweeper. He expected to
join a squadron of the Atlantic Fleet sometime in July.

LIEUTENANT Dick Day, who received his commis-
sion at Fort Benning in April, has been stationed at
Fort McClellan, Alabama.

[ 36 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Monty Horn is serving in the Merchant Marine Ser-
vice, enroute somewhere from Los Angeles.

LIEUTENANT BAYARD BERGHAUs has been recovering
from severe wounds received on Guadalcanal Island at
the U. S$. Naval Hospital in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania.

LIEUTENANT JOSEPH LyKEs has seen service from
Iceland to Africa, and has been recently stationed on
shore duty in England.

Huceu Best has been with the Engineers at Fort Bel-
voir, Virginia, and is now stationed at the Pampa Army
Air Field in Texas as an aviation cadet.

Dick HERNDON received his Second Lieutenan’t com-
mission from the Infantry School at Fort Benning in
January of this year.

CHARLIE Hopson received his Ensign’s commission
at the Midshipmen’s School at Columbia in February,
and has been stationed aboard the new USS Lexingion.

LIEUTENANT HeErB Woopwarp is stationed in the
South Pacific with a Naval Supply Depot. He has been
at Melbourne and is now at Sydney, Australia.

1942

Tom FLEMING, of the Army of the United States,
was, according to the last report, at the Shenango Re-
placement Depot, Greenville, Pennsylvania.

KNSIGN Tom SWEENEY, who is now stationed with
the Navy Supply Corps School in Boston, was previ-
ously stationed in New London, Conn., where he ran
into another alumnus, Joe Broadus, of the Class of 1930.

Kp Fountain holds a Second Lieutenant’s commis-
sion in the Army Medical Corps and is attending the
Medical School at Johns Hopkins. He writes that the
record there “speaks better words for W&IL, men than
can truthfully be said of the Yale, Harvard, or Prince-
ton men.”

Louis REHR is a Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps.
He has been stationed at Kelly Mield, at Waco, ‘Texas, at
Del Rio, Texas, and in July, was assigned to the pilot
school at Dodge City Army Air Iield, Kansas. His work
has consisted for the most part in instructing others.

LIEUTENANT Ropert SCHULtTz, of the U.S. Marine
Corps, has been serving in the South Pacific since Dec-
ember, 1942.

ENsIGN Bop Roor is now stationed with the Naval
Aviation Cadet Selection Board in Washington, D. C.

Dick SPINDLE, Communications Officer aboard the
American transport, U.S.S. American Legion, has visit-
ed many places in the South Pacific, including New
Zealand and New Caledonia.

Bup YEomANs, U.S. Navy Supply Corps, not only
attended the Naval School at Harvard University, but
also married Miss Angie Frazer, of Detroit, in the Har-
vard Chapel on November 7, 1942. Ensign Yeomans is
now stationed at Hutchison, Kansas.

Ep McCartuy received his wings of gold from the
Naval Air Base at Pensacola in June, 1943. He reports
Pensacola to be running over with W. and L. alumni in
the capacities of both students and instructors.

CoLIN BAxTER received his commission in the United
States Marine Corps in February, 1943, and was sta-
tioned at Quantico, Virginia, until May of this year.

ALAN Britton is a member of the American Field
Service and has been serving with the Fighting French
in North Africa.

I,NSIGN CHARLES LEMKUHL is on duty with the Navy
in San Diego, California. He and Miss Doris Erwin, of
Charleston, West Virginia, were married on March 9,
1943.

INSIGN Bos CAMPBELL writes from the Navy's Sup-
ply Corps School at Harvard that he has seen ‘Ted Bru-
insma, John Alnutt, and Roy Wheeler. Bob was one of
the few alumni to attend the 1943 edition of the W. and
L,. Spring Dance Set.

LIEUTENANT Oscar DuNN attended O.C.S. at Grin-
nell College, lowa, and then reported back to W. and L..
—this time as a student in the School for Special Serv-
ice which the Army has established here. He success-
fully completed his course and was promptly placed on
the staff of the latter school.

Bos ROSENFELD is doing experimental work in Pitts-
burgh on explosives under Dr. Larkin Farinholt, who
is on leave from the W&I, Chemistry Department.

IWNSIGN FELIX SMART was stationed at the Naval Sup-
ply Depot in New Orleans prior to being sent to the
Supply Corps School in Boston.

ENSIGN CHARLES REICHHARDT, JR., was at Harvard
University for instruction in Naval Communications
and is expected to be there until May. He married Miss
Ethel Ebersberger on November 25, 1942.

RAy RUSSELL is in the Army and was, at the time his
class letter was written, in New Guinea.

 

 

 

 

 

 

i =
rf en és a :
3 om ad

-_ atts
hee)! |. 7 A
i a 3 2 are " co] We
; 4 SLL | 3
: vue a 1h X
' “ aT

~\-~)
~

 

The SEP y of Washington and
Lee Commemorative Platés is exhausted and the
Alumni Office has ordered fifty dozen additional
plates through Jones, McDuffee & Stratton, Wedg-
wood representatives in Boston. The plates are
manufactured in England and delivery is therefore
uncertain. No orders will be accepted until plates

are received in Boston. Watch for

further announcements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

