:
‘ ' '

MAY, 1947

PY
—
.
“i
~~
’
\
es

e=rwue,
oes

 

 

 

“ > — -
ete i ee nO NR AR ae i ee ena e.
sa = P x

;
:
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE

Washington and Lee

University
Alumni Fund

J

YOUR Class Agent is
doing an unselfish and loyal job for the
University. He will do his part. Do your
part by replying to his letter.

The Alumni Fund is the most effec-
tive means through which you may eV1-
dence your interest and appreciation of

what your Alma Mater has done for you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap,
Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia,
34 Peachtree

Baltimore—Louis L. Tignor, ‘32, Maryland
Trust Building

Birmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge Sale,
‘24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, '38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., °41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C,. T. Dawkins, ‘09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Mimai, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, ‘29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, ‘33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—John S. Caskie, '25, Caskie Paper
Company

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, '31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, '37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—aA, Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, '15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—William B. Bagby, WDBJ

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Randolph D. Rouse, ‘39,
Valley Vista Apts., Belmont Road, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXII MAY, 1947 No. 3

 

Eddor iA. ......Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President 5.253... Tuos. S. KirKpatrick, 1913
Vice-President....................P. C. WxHittock, 1929
Secretary................ Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer... DR. RE Wuire, 1919

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun W. Drye, 1920

P. C. Wuirtock, 1929
Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913

Leon W. Harris, 1915

Dr. Rei Wuire, 1919

Amos A. BoLen, 1937
LAURENCE W. Witson, 1910
Henry P. Jounston, 1929

THE FRONT COVER

Three great catchers assemble for this year’s renewal of
South’s oldest baseball rivalry, begun in 1867, between Vir-
ginia and Washington and Lee. Guest of honor was William
M. McElwee, ’79, who caught the first curve ball ever thrown
in intercollegiate baseball in the Virginia game of 1878. He
is shown here with his modern counterpart, John Bell, (left),
Generals’ 1947 catcher, and Dave Carr, Virginia backstop.

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

An Immortality of Love

Washington and Lee has now received practically the
entire Menkemeller bequest, amounting to almost exactly
$200,000. The story behind this gift is beautiful and
inspiring.

ee

Charles Menkemeller of Wheeling, West Virginia,
was a brilliant boy, endowed not only with excellence of
mind but also with qualities of person and of character
that gave unmistakable promise of leadership. He was
graduated with high honors in 1915; then in a few brief
years he was dead. To his friends and his family the
shock and the sorrow were immense.

* *k KK x

Within the councils of her own mind, without any
urging or petition, his mother formed her purpose. ‘Twen-
ty-seven years later she herself died, and then we learned
that the bulk of her estate had been given to this institu-
tion, a basis for scholarships to be awarded in the School

of Law.
* ok Ok Ok Ok

 

Years will come and go but—as far as human judg-
ment can now prophesy—there will always be a group of
boys on this campus, probably between twenty and twen-
ty-five boys, able and worthy boys, who will thus have
the opportunity which Charles Menkemeller used so
well, the experience which he found so happy; and they

will go on, pray God, to take up his unfulfilled career of
triumph and of influence.

* *K K *K *

Somebody has said that though we jest about money
and even speak scornfully of “filthy lucre,” it is actually
the immediate, powerful agent of the soul’s deep desire.
If, for example, one elects debauchery, dishonor, and
degradation, money can mightily speed his progress down
that melancholy path. But if one wishes to make a better
world, to bring light where there was darkness and hope
where there was despair, money can be effective for real-
izing this high impulse.

* kK OK kK *

Money can project our loyalties and our convictions
beyond the reach of our shortened hands and beyond the
sound of our pleading voice, project these things on a
widening perimeter of our own day and generation, and
project these allegiances across the years to come.

* KK *K

Thus money can make immortal this noblest of our
desiring. Thus in ministry to youth and to society and
to God, Charles Menkemeller and Mrs. Menkemeller,
the great boy and the devoted mother, will live forever
here on the campus he loved, to sustain in other boys the
dream and the faith that stirred in his own heart.

Ae @s74< t me ¢

President

[5]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A DAY WITH A VETERAN STUDENT’S WIFE—(1) Breakfast for Two; (2) Tidy Housekeeping; (3) Off to School
and Teaching Job; (4) Picked Up After Teaching Fifth and Sixth Grades at Public School; (5) Relaxation;
(6) Preparing Dinner; (7) Budgeting Is a Serious Business; (8) Card Game with Neighbors

rr , Mp

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the Campus

BICENTENNIAL FUND CHAIRMEN MEET

Many Regional Chairmen of the Bicentennial Fund at-
tended a special campaign conference at the University on
April 12, at the Bicentennial Offices in McCormick Library,
held in connection with the Washington-Cincinnati Society
Convocation.

Dr. James G. Leyburn, Dean-elect of the University, was
the principal speaker at the noon Convocation in Doremus
Gymnasium and attended a luncheon afterward for the
Regional Chairmen and wives and members of the Bicen-
tennial Committee.

o eR

LAW REVIEW REVIVED

The Fall edition of the Washington and Lee Law review,
the first since the war, has recently been placed in the mails.
Senior law students Richard B. Spindle of Norfolk and John
Dorsey of Henderson, Kentucky, were co-editors and pro-
fessor Theodore A. Smedley, faculty adviser, for the publi-
cation. 5

* * ee &

RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE

The relation of religion to present-day world affairs was
the keynote of the program of the University Religious
Conference held March 12, 13, and 14. The conference was led
by Dr. Robert S$. Cushman, professor of political science at
Duke University. A feature of the Conference was a series
of discussions on inter-faith understanding given by Rabbi
David Wice, B.A. ’27, M.A. ’28, Newark, New Jersey, repre-
sentative of the Jewish Chatauqua Society. The Conference
was arranged by the Washington and Lee Christian Council
under the direction of James LL. Price, Jr., director of re-
ligious activities at Washington and Lee, and brought a
distinguished group of discussion leaders and lecturers to
the non-sectarian campus.

ie a ee
PHI BETA KAPPA

Edward Weeks, editor of Atlantic Monthly, delivered the
annual public Phi Beta Kappa address in Lee Chapel at noon
on Monday, April 28. The occasion coincided with initiation
ceremonies of the Washington and Lee chapter of the na-
tional honorary scholarship society. Later in the day Mr.
Weeks, O. W. Riegel, director of the Lee Memorial Jour-
nalism Foundation, Alumnus Dr. James E. Bear, ’20, and
seven students were initiated into membership in the society.
The student initiates were Rodney M. Cook, John Lloyd
Dorsey, Jr., James W. Harman, Jr., Omer Thomas Kaylor,
Jr., Edward Paul Lyons and Kenneth G. Smith. A banquet
at the Dutch Inn in the evening was attended by members
of the local chapter, returning alumni and the initiates.

a ee
FANCY DRESS

In spite of a 15-inch snowfall, which was slightly out of
the picture, “A Carnival in Rio,” Washington and Lee’s first
Fancy Dress Ball since 1943, was a pronounced success. 600
girls from practically every state in the Union as well as
Kngland, Puerto Rico and Canal Zone, braved the elements
to be on hand for the three-day dance set February 19, 20,

om
VOTE ror EXPERIENCE

FRED. _.Y.ANSON

Set ZINOVOY
pacers

wastie
he tee
etter:

oo

 

 

 

Spring Election Politics, as Usual

 

21, culminating in the traditionally colorful ball which has be-
come the outstanding college social function of the South.
The music was furnished by Elliot Lawrence and his or-
chestra. The dance was led by Fancy Dress Ball president,
Gene Marable and Miss Bettie Burns.

Se St a ae
TROUBADOURS PRESENT RESTORATION PLAY

With the coming of the war and the Army’s School for
Personnel Services the Troubadours, Washington and Lee’s
dramatic organization, suspended activities, but during the
fall presented “The Petrified Forest.” On March 12, 13, 14
and 15 they reached a high spot in the production of “And So
To Bed.” Under the direction of Jack Lanich, the play, the
sets, the lighting, and the make-up combined to draw enthu-
Siastic approval from the full-house audiences each night.
Rehearsals for the next Troubadour production, “Angel
Street,” to be given in May, are now well under way.

* * * *

COLOR-SOUND MOVIE

The 25-minute sound movie in color of Washington and
Lee will soon be ready for showing. Under the direction of
Charles Chapman, of Evanston, Illinois, the picture includes
shots of last year’s finals and campus activities taken during
the fall and winter of this year.

ae ee
DOGPATCH DAY

In order to carry out the “Dogpatch Day” theme of Inter-
fraternity Weekend on May 10, Washington and Lee will
toss tradition to the wind and allow students to attend classes
minus the conventional dress of coat and tie. Students may
walk unmolested about town and on the campus attired in
anything that “doesn’t exceed the bounds of decency.” High-
light of the weekend will be a square dance Saturday night

[7 ]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IS:

A DAY WITH A HOUSEMOTHER—(1) Breakfast in Bed; (2) Menus and Grocery Orders; (3) Luncheon; (4) What’s
on the Menu for Tonight?; (5) Dressing for Dinner; (6) Relaxation after Dinner; (7) Attends
Basketball Game; (8) And So to Bed

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in the gymnasium. In addition to the dance, many fraternities
are planning picnics and hayrides throughout the day. The
Interfraternity Council has received permission from Dean
F. J. Gilliam for the one day tradition break.

ae £8
GLEE CLUB

The Washington and Lee Glee Club gave its first public
concert of the season on April 26 in Lee Chapel, combining
with the Hollins College Choral Group to present a program
of spiritual and popular compositions.

Following this concert the Glee Club presented a con-
cert on May 2 in conjunction with the Mary Baldwin Glee
Club in Staunton.

ag woe: ts

FOREIGN VISITORS

Istvan Borsody, Counselor and Press Attache of the
Hungarian Legation, addressed a joint meeting of Sigma Delta
Chi, professional journalism fraternity, and the International
Relations Club at the Student Union on February 27.

Born in Eperjes, Hungary (now Chechoslovakia), Mr.
Borsody graduated from Charles in Prague with a degree
of Doctor of Laws in 1934 and continued hiS studies through-
out Europe specializing in the nationality problems of South-
western Europe. He was appointed to his present position in
January, 1946.

Two prominent French journalists, Gerard d’Orgeville
and Charles Sans, came to Washington and Lee on the invi-
tation of Professor O. W. Riegel, for a three-day visit on
April 6, 7 and 8. M. d’Oregville is the founder and secretary-
general of Nord France and is a staff member of La Voix du
Nord, French Newspapers. He is also, at present, with the
Paris Bureau of the Associated Press. M. Sans is chief of the
Toulouse office of France Presse, the official French news
agency, and a staff member of Republique de Sudouest and
La Victoire. The visitors met with various groups while on
the campus.

* ok ek Ok *

NEW BALL FIELD

Construction is practically completed on the new baseball
diamond located on the top of the hill between Wilson Field
and the ruins of old Liberty Hall Academy. The new field
will be used for practice, saving the grass which has been
planted on the football field adjacent to the present diamond.
Cap’n Dick Smith stated that it was possible that at a future
date games will be shifted to the new diamond in line with
the expansion program of the University. The field will be
readily available from Route 60 and will ease the parking
problem.

eee ee

SIPA CONVENTION REVIVED

For years, the annual meeting of the Southern Interscho-
lastic Press Association here was considered the most im-
portant event in the calendars of high schools throughout
the South. On April 25, the 18th annual convention got un-
derway, the first since pre-war years.

From all over the Southeast, a record number of prepara-
tory and high school editors came to Lexington. Many famous
names in the newspaper world including James A. Linen,
publisher of Time magazine, Mark Woods, president of the
American Broadcasting Company, Arthur Gordon, editor of
Cosmopolitan Magazine, Harold R. Foster, creator of the
comic feature, “Prince Valiant,’ John E. Allen, editor of
Linotype News, and Watson Davis, director of Science Ser-
vice, spoke at the meeting.

 

NEW INITIATES OF SIGMA DELTA CHI—Initiated
into the national professional journalism fraternity by the
W. and L. chapter during the recent convention of the South-
ern Interscholastic Press Association were (left to right):
Cowl Rider, ’37, Richmond “News Leader’; Carleton Hark-
rader, editorial director of the Bristol (Va.) papers; Watson
Davis, director of Science Service; Louis Spilman, publisher
of the Waynesboro “News-Virginian”; Bill Atkinson, manag-
ing editor of the Roanoke “Times”; James A. Linen, pub-
lisher of “Time” magazine; and Josiah P. Rowe, publisher
of the Fredericksburg “Free Lance-Star,” whose two sons,
Charlie and Joe, are studying journalism at Washington and
Lee. Spilman and Atkinson are both teaching three hours a
week in the W. and L. journalism department as visiting
professors.

 

Considerable credit for the success of the affair goes to
O. W. Riegel and E. W. Withers of the Journalism Depart-
ment along with Fred Holley and Charlie Rowe. Members of
Sigma Delta Chi’s chapter here also assisted with the de-
tails. As usual, the huge printing job for the convention was
handled by Mr. Lauck over in the print shop. His fine pro-
gram received many favorable comments.

Delegates met in Lee Chapel, with a dance held for them
in the gymnasium. A banquet was held in the VMI mess hall
on the night of the 26th. Results of this year’s competition
for SIPA awards was also made public. This year there was
a very heavy volume of entries. A special feature of the pro-
gram was a current events contest for all delegates.

Among the group leaders were the following alumni: Bay-
ard S. Berghaus, ’41, The Monitor, St. Paul’s School, Balti-
more, Maryland; M. Cowl Rider, ’37, News-Leader, Rich-
mond, Virginia; A. T. Gunn, °34, City Editor, The News
Lynchburg, Virginia; William Buchanan, °41, instructor in
Journalism, Roanoke College, Virginia; Claude Harrison, ’34,
The Roanoke Engraving Company, Roanoke, Virginia.

This conference went a long way in helping the Journal-
ism Department reestablish the Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation as the foremost school of Journalism in this
part of the nation. This year the department has also spon-
sored speeches by David Tennant Bryan, publisher of the
Richmond Newspapers and Ralph McGill, Editor of the At-
lanta Constitution.

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Lee’s Shoes—In the News

Here’s the story of the shoes that carried General Lee
into war and Washington and Lee University into more than
a thousand newspapers throughout America: The Associated
Press told it this way:

LEXINGTON, Va., Mar. 29—(AP)—Students of Wash-
ington and Lee University made doubly sure today that a
purported $2.88 debt of General Robert E. Lee, incurred in
1861, is written off the books.

After reading an Associated Press dispatch disclosing the
item still on the ledgers of the Bradshaw shoe store at Alex-
andria, the students forwarded a check to the creditor cover-
ing the $2.88 debt, with interest.

 

Furthermore, to insure that the account be paid properly,
the students made an additional payment in Confederate
currency, directing the shoe company to take its choice.

The famed Confederate military leader, who has been a
sort of an unofficial “patron saint” to generations of Wash-
ington and Lee students ever since he served as the institu-
tion’s president from 1865 until his death five years later,
purchased the shoes April 13, 1861, according to the company’s
ledgers retained by Mrs. John J. Ballenger, or Alexandria,
descendant of the store’s original founder.

Upon learning that Mrs. Ballenger’s accounts showed pay-
ment was unreceived for the custom-made shoes which sold
for $1.25 to $1.63 a pair, a group of Washington and Lee stu-
dents “chipped in” to raise the money and clear the dis-
tinguished southerner’s name from the shoe company books.

The Confederate money was added, it was explained, be-
cause the students weren’t sure which would be the more legal.

Among the list of contributors was General Lee’s own great
grandson, Robert E. Lee, IV, of New York, Washington and
Lee Freshman, who departed from the campus today on
spring vacation but whose roommate chipped in young Lee’s
share.

Taking up the collection was Tom Randall, of Swarth-
more, Pennsylvania, who described himself as “a Yankee who
believes General Lee the only man in history of whom no ill
should ever be spoken.”

Interest on the debt was compounded at six per cent semi-
annually for three years, the maximum time allowed for the
collection of store accounts under the Virginia statute of
limitations. This boosted the $2.88 account to $3.45.

One student contributor said General Lee’s oversight
probably was because he bought the shoes the day after the
firing on Fort Sumter and that the bill probably wasn’t mailed
until the first of the following month and didn’t reach the
addressee because his whereabouts were a “military secret.”

S.-i oe

Reactions have poured in through clippings, editorials,
and letters varying widely in tone. One reader suggested the
money be applied to start a fund to erect a monument to
General Longstreet. An irate Chicagoan sent along, with in-
adequate explanation, a copy of “Alice in Wonderland” for
Randall to read (he had already read it), and the Sigma Chi
house at Centre College, with true Americanism, had the
news article posted on the college bulletin board “so that all
our students can read this ‘classic statement’ from a Yankee.”

Stirred to new heights of allegiance to the Confederacy,
the shoe store returned the check and Confederate “lettuce”
to the W. and L. bill collectors and the AP put the shoes on
the other foot with this follow-up story:

ee

ALEXANDRIA, Va., Apr. 1—(AP)—Those two pairs
of shoes purchased by General Robert Lee for $2.88 are still
on the books.

The shoe store where the purchase was made has returned
a check for the amount—plus interest—forwarded by stu-
dents of Washington and Lee University.

Mrs. Clinton Ballenger, of Alexandria, descendant of the
store’s original owner, found the item in old accounts now in
her possession.

Both she and the shoe store say they won't accept any of
several offers made to pay the amount she disclosed several
days ago that the purchase price apparently never had been
paid.

* *

 

ALUMNI REPRESENTING WASHINGTON AND LEE
IN INAUGURAL AND CENTENNIAL
CELEBRATIONS IN OTHER COLLEGES

Inauguration Dr. Stoddard, President University of jIll-
nois, Urbana, Illinois—Dean M. T. McClure, ’04.
Inauguration Dr. David Blair Owen, President Bradley
University, Peoria, Illinois—Wayne H. Mathis, °32.
Inauguration Dr. William Vermillion Houston, President
Rice Institute, Houston, Texas—Melvin E. Kurth, ’11.
Inauguration Dr. Ernest Herman Hahne, President Miami
University, Oxford, Ohio— Walter C. Preston, 16.
Inauguration Dr. Lyndon Osmond Brown, President Knox
College, Galesburg, Illinois—Edward F. Garber, ’21.
Inauguration Dr. Leonard M. Elstad, President Gallaudet
College, Washington, D. C—William O. Burtner, 717.
Inauguration Dr. Robert Cecil Cook, President Mississip-
pi Southern College, Hattiesburg, Mississippi, Lawrence Y.
Foote, 30.
Centennial Celebration,
Ohio—Holmes W. King, ’11.
Centennial Celebration, Rockford College, Rockford, Illi-
nois, I. P. Gassman, ’07.
Inauguration of Dr. C. Harve Geiger, President of North
Cental College, Naperville, [llinois—Philip P. Page, ’08.

 

 

Otterbein College, Westerville,

 

ALUMNI ELECTED TO DIRECTORSHIPS
OF THEIR RESPECTIVE DISTRICTS OF NAB

Gilmore Nunn, B.A. ’31, was elected director of District
7 of the National Association of Broadcasters at the NAB
Area G meeting held in Roanoke April 28-29. He has been
president of the KBA since 1934. His father, J. Lindsay Nunn
is board Chairman.

Henry P. Johnston, B.A. ’29, was elected director of NAB
District 5 at the Area F station meetings held May 1 in
Birmingham, Alabama. He is Managing Director of WSGN,
Birmingham, and executive vice-President of the Birmingham
News and Age-Herald Company. Retiring president of the
Alabama Broadcasters Association, and chairman of the ABC
(American Broadcasting Company) stations planning and
advisory committee.

[10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Spring Sports at the University

By Brent Breedin

Spring sports at Washington and Lee have been extended
this year to cover all pre-war activities and to once again
place the Generals among the few schools south of Washing-
ton that support lacrosse and crew. Track has also reappeared
to join with the already organized baseball, golf, and tennis
teams in rounding out the Lexington athletic scene.

Success has varied in the six sports, and though statistics
show but a slightly better than .500 winning average at
present, it is felt that the greatly improved teams will push
this percentage up considerably in remaining contests.

Baseball

Cap’n Dick Smith’s perennial baseball nine has set the
pace for other W. and L. squads thus far despite, the loss of
several key men from last year’s team who had been counted
on for much action.

Failing to get any breaks from the weather at the sea-
son’s outset, the Generals were beseiged by the unseasonable
coldness and resulting poor condition of Wilson Field; visit-
ing Trinity College and Yale nines brought with them snow
to postpone the opener until the spring vacation trip.

Forced to commence a difficult schedule in such a manner,
Washington and Lee fared poorly. Consecutive days saw
William and Mary completely disregard a 6-0 deficit to come
back strong with a 19-6 win and Richmond tighten up after
five errors in two innings to down the Generals, 7-4. Rain in-
tervened in proposed games with Maryland, George Wash-
ington, and Quantico, but a third contest was played against
Georgetown whose three runs in the eighth dropped the
touring Lexington squad, 5-3.

Victory, when it finally arrived, came in the form of a four
game winning streak—Penn State, 9-8; Michigan, 4-0; Quan-
tico Marines, 8-5; and West Virginia Tech, 11-1. Pitchers
Graham “Buck” Leslie, Johnny Ligon, and Nelson Newcomb,
all W. and L. lettermen but playing on the same team for

 

*
’ , nd .
ee SS z

tea 2177 23 i

 

Lacrosse Team Has Successful Season

 

Generals’ Crew on the James

 

the first time, handled the mound duties efficiently, while
All-State catcher Johnny Bell performed well behind the
plate.

Lettermen Fred Vinson and Dick Working teamed with
newcomers Brian Bell and Frank Heinze in completing the
infield, and freshmen Willis Woods, Don Hillock, and John
Dillon patrolled the outfield.

V.P.1. snapped the streak at Blacksburg, 10-9, on out-
fielder Dave Poole’s eighth inning grand slam home run. Four
days later in Lexington the largest crowd of the season wit-
nessed the Virginia game, but wishes for a General triumph
were wasted as the visiting “Wahoos” took advantage of a
W. and L,. lapse in the late innings to come from behind and
win 9-4. Leslie pitched well all afternoon but was plagued
with many questionable hits and a worthy opponent in Vir-
ginia’s Neal Wade.

A six game winning streak which has lifted Washington
and Lee to fourth place in the Southern Conference brings
us down to the present time. Besides defeating Davidson,
10-2; Bridgewater College, 11-6; and George Washington,
5-1, the Generals avenged earlier “Big Six” losses by trounc-
ing Richmond, 5-3, V.P.1., 6-0, and William and Mary, 1-0.

Fielding and pitching have been exceptional for collegiate
ball, while Fred Vinson’s .456 batting average is leading the
state.

Lacrosse

Without the services of an experienced coach, lacrosse
enthusiasts at Washington and Lee formed a solid front in
getting their sport officially recognized again by University
officials.

Commencing practice in the fall, those interested in la-
crosse were organized by student Frank Brooks who has
since served as player-coach. John Baxter, associate professor
in the chemistry department, has acted as adviser to the group.

From the start it was apparent that the Generals would

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

be a threat to their opponents, for on the basis of prep school
stars alone, Washington and Lee was ranked sixth nationally
by pre-season forecasters.

Penn State invaded Lexington the Tuesday after spring

holidays only to fall before the Generals, 6-5. Tommy Tongue
and Gil Brooks led the scorers while Bill Pacy and Frank
Brooks starred defensively.

Lack of experience and coaching told on the W. and L.
team the following two weekends as Swarthmore broke a
halftime deadlock to win by a decisive 12-6 margin over the
invading Generals and Duke rallied to score three goals in
the last period edging their visitors, 5-3.

Out-of-town matches with Virginia and Loyola of Bal-
timore enabled the Generals to resume their winning ways by
8-6 and 12-7 scores respectively, and in the second home
match of the season W. and L. found little difficulty in
smothering Knights of Columbus of Baltimore, 11-1.

Golf

Cy Twombly’s golf team, paced by lettermen Gordon Sib-
ley and Bob Carr and newcomers Jack McCormack and John
McKelway, have played brilliantly this season in winning
six, losing four, and tying one match and placing fourth in
the Southern Conference tournament of twelve entrants.

Playing their first six meets on the local golf course, the
Generals came back strong after dropping an 8-1 verdict to
a touring Michigan squad to defeat Georgetown, 8-1; Hamp-
den-Sydney, 9-0; George Washington, 7-2; Apprentice School,
5-4; and to tie Virginia 44%4-4%. The “Wahoos” salvaged a
tie when a player sank a thirty foot putt on the final green.

A change of courses apparently had a bad effect on the
fortunes’ of the W. and L. golfers, for George Washington
avenged its earlier defeat by a 5%-3% margin; Virginia
triumphed at Charlottesville, 5-4; and V.P.I. won 5%-3% at
Roanoke.

A tune-up match with Davidson College before the South-
ern Conference Tournament got underway was captured by
the Generals, 14-4, and the following afternoon Sibley and
McKelway shot 153’s to help Washington and Lee place
fourth in the conference. A return to the local course re-
sulted in a 5-4 victory over V.P.I.

Tennis

Fred Perry remained in Lexington long enough before
commencing another tour to organize his tennis squad and
see them easily down South Carolina, 6-3, and then lose to
Michigan, 8-1.

Since that time his boys have managed to defeat Rich-
mond on two occasions and Hampden-Sydney for the only
other wins while being trounced by Virginia twice, 8-1 and
7-2; Virginia Law School, 9-0; Country Club of Virginia,
6-3; and Davidson, 7-2.

The Generals starting six is composed almost entirely
of newcomers with number six man and captain Don Mox-
ham the only letterman. Ken Wilson, Harry Wellford, Jim
Farrar, Art Joseph, and Bill Clayton play the other singles
in that order.

Track

Handicapped by the weather and a very late start, Wash-
ington and Lee’s track team has experienced a not-too-out-
standing season. Coach Harry Broadbent was hindered still
further this spring by a lack of interest among students who
might well have lifted the chances of the Generals.

In the four dual meets scheduled W. and L. was outclassed
by Virginia Tech in the opener, 108-18; decisioned Richmond
in the only home meet, seventy-six and one-third to fifty-four

and two-thirds; and lost to West Virginia and Davidson on
successive weekends by 92%-29/%4 and 81-50 counts respec-
tively.

End Jim Lukens of last year’s football squad and half-
back prospect Vic Marler led the scoring for Washington
and Lee, the former winning consistently in the weights and
high jump and the latter participating in the dashes, high
jump, pole vault, and mile relay.

Crew

Though finding themselves with little more than a tra-
dition, several students interested in crew enlisted the aid of
Dr. Reid White, Jr., university physician and part-time crew
coach, in an effort to bring back to life the spring activity be-
gun in 1874 when two rival boating groups, the Harry Lee
and Albert Sydney clubs, met in an intramural meet which has
been an annual event ever since.

A meet with Rollins College on Lake Maitland in Florida
was arranged, and practice sessions became a daily occurrence
on the new James River course. Navigable for three or four
shells abreast, the new course has an exceptionally pictur-
esque setting, and, matched by only a few courses in America,
has a clear-vision railroad along the bank which can _ be
utilized for flat-car bleachers to accommodate spectators de-
siring to follow the race from start to finish.

Inexperience was the big factor in the clash with Rollins,
as the Florida school took an early lead and held to it in
defeating the Generals by three lengths.

 

DEAN BUXTON HOBBES

In the February, 1947, issue of the Leatherneck Magazine
called, “The Globe Is Its Campus,” about the Marine Corps
Institute, appears a picture of A. Buxton Hobbes, ’39, Dean
of the Institute.

A Marine Lieutenant Buxton was wounded on Guada-
canal, and when he returned from the hospital he went into
training work, first at Camp Peary, Virginia, and then at the
Marine Corps Institute, where he was discharged last year
as a Captain. He returned to the Marine Corps Institute as
Dean and has done much to bring the Institute to its high
standing. The Institute has over 25,000 students enrolled, in-
cluding both Marine officers and enlisted men serving here
and abroad. They may complete their high school education
by correspondence or make a start on their college education
while still in the service. There are courses in foreign ser-
vice studies, business, manual arts, the sciences of communi-
cation and engineering, practical sciences, automobile mech-
anics, aviation, radio, and the regular academic courses.

Besides his work Buxton has managed to go on with his
law study and will obtain his degree from George Washing-
ton University this spring, He and his wife, who was a Navy
nurse, live at 3113 Martha Custis Drive, Alexandria, Virginia.

 

ALUMNI IN LAW FIRM

The law firm of Brown, Jackson & Knight, now Jackson,
Kelly, Morrison and Moxley, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia, has long been closely associated
through its membership with Washington and Lee. Homer
A. Holt, ’18, ex-governor of West Virginia, is still associated
with the new firm as Counsel, although he has recently
withdrawn as an active partner in the firm to become Gen-
eral Counsel of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation in
New York City. Other Washington and Lee alumni now con-
nected with the firm are Robert G. Kelley, ’21, John C. Mor-
rison, ’25, W. Goodrich Sale, Jr.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Chapter Meeting Notes

WASHINGTON, D.C., ALUMNI MEET

Alumni and their guests of the area in and around Wash-
ington, D. C., gathered on the evening of April 2 at the May-
flower for the District of Columbia chapter’s annual banquet
and departed after being well fed and thoroughly entertained.

Following the invocation by Rev. Charles W. Lowry,
D. D., °26, the more than one hundred guests settled them-
selves for dinner and a program that began with the
“welcome” remarks of chapter president, Randolph Rouse, ’39,
Washington business representative. Ranny moved to the in-
troduction of the toastmaster, and the fun was on. Setting
the fast pace, he said, “—An eminently successful lawyer,
publisher, farmer, political scientist, recontouer, and Champion
Smelt Eater, I give you the Congressman from Ohio, your
toastmaster, Clarence J. Brown. (Editor’s note: Clarence
Brown, °16, recently won the smelt eating contest in the
House restaurant). Whereupon the master toastmaster took
over and guided the program with amusing stories, introduc-
ing during the course of events, Senator Chapman Rever-
comb, °18, of West Virginia, Cy Young, 717, Alumni Secre-
tary, Colonel Milton Rogers, ’17, Executive Director of the
Washington and Lee Bicentennial Program, Graham Mori-
son, °31, vice-president of the chapter and Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, Professor Raymon Johnson of the
Law School, Dr. John Varner, former English Professor at
Washington and Lee and now attached to the United States
Kmbassy in Mexico City. Paul Brown, °41, former president
of the chapter, Basil Manly, 06, former Chairman of Fed-
eral Power Commission, and others.

Senator Revercomb, who left a special night session of the
Senate to attend the banquet, was not to be outdone by the
toastmaster’s repartee, and contributed, and contributed nobly
on his own, as did Col. Milton Rogers, who gave a summari-
zation of the Bicentennial Program.

It remained for Professor Johnson to add the perfect
touch to the evening. Arising to the occasion, as those who
know him can appreciate, as one alumnus put it, “he com-
pletely captivated his audience and retired midst thunderous
applause.”

 

District of Columbia Alumni Meet in
Sapphire Room at Mayflower Hotel

 

 

 

At Washington Meeting: Cy Young, Senator Revercomb,
Representative Brown and Ranny Rouse, president of chapter

The Sapphire Room at the Mayflower was appropriately
decorated in blue and white. Mrs. Emily Penick Pearse, wife
of Fred Pearse, ’28, Secretary-Treasurer of the chapter, was
on hand to lend accompaniment to The Swing. Buddy Bowie,
43, did his, as-usual, fine job in charge of arrangements.

* x* * * *
CINCINNATI, OHIO, ALUMNI GUESTS AT DINNER

On April 9, 1947, some twenty members of the Cincinnati
Washington and Lee Alumni Chapter were the guests of
Walter McDonald, ’10, at the Queen City Club. The group
enjoyed an excellent dinner before proceeding to the business
of the evening. Led by Mr. McDonald, the group discussed
the rapidly approaching Washington and Lee Bicentennial
Celebration. The discussion was quite informal, with each
individual lending at least one idea thereto. Clyde Hoge, ’07,
was unanimously elected Chairman of the Bicentennial Com-
mittee for the Southern part of Ohio. Other members of the
committee will be appointed at a later date.

One of the highlights of the meeting was the presence of
John Darnell, who has many friends among the younger
alumni.

John G. Tomlin, ’28, is president of the Cincinnati Alumni
Chapter.

& ieee es

ALUMNI CELEBRATE FOUNDER’S DAY

Tri-state alumni of Washington and Lee, with their guests,
enjoyed a Founder’s Day dinner at the Henry Clay Hotel
in Ashland, Kentucky.

Judge A. W. Mann of Ashland, president of the tri-state
association, welcomed some eighty persons who attended from
Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, and presented the speak-
er of the evening, Charles R. McDowell of the law school
faculty.

Those present were: Mr. and Mrs. Bob Morris, Jr., Mr.
and Mrs. John McVay, Mr. and Mrs. Vickers Williamson,
Mr. and Mrs. R. O. Parmelee, Mr. and Mrs. W. Roy Camp-

(Continued on page 16)

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Prof. John A. Graham Died on May 9

John Alexander Graham, aged 52, professor of Romance
languages at Washington and Lee University, died in Jack-
son Memorial hospital in Lexington, Friday morning, May 9
at 11 o'clock, following an illness of several weeks. His death
resulted from a complication of diseases. He had met his
classes daily until he entered the hospital.

Mr. Graham was a native of Lexington where he was born
January 15, 1895, a son of Edward Lacy Graham. His mother
was before her marriage Miss Louisa Eoff of Lexington.
On his father’s side he came from a long line of Rockbridge
ancestry closely identified with Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

He was directly descended from William Graham, first
rector from 1782 to 1796 of Liberty Hall Academy, forerun-
ner of the university. His great-great grandfather, Edward
Graham, was trustee of the college from 1807 to 1841 and
professor of mathematics. His grand-father was Dr. Edward
L. Graham, well known physician in the community and a
Confederate soldier.

After attending the local public schools, Mr. Graham was
a student at St. James school in Maryland and entering Wash-
ington and Lee in 1910, was graduated there in 1914 with high
scholastic honors and membership in Phi Beta Kappa scholar-
ship fraternity. He taught in the language department of John
Marshall high school in Richmond briefly after his gradua-
tion, and then did graduate work at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity and the University of Grenoble, France.

His studies there were interrupted by World War I and
he experienced some difficulty in getting out of Europe and
returning home. Upon his arrival he at once volunteered for
Officers’ training school and was commissioned a lieutenant
in the intelligence service. Going back to France he was in
charge of civil affairs for the army of occupation in Coblenz,
Germany. After the war, he continued his studies at Prince-
ton, receiving his master’s degree there in 1922, and also
studied at the University of Madrid in Spain.

Mr. Graham became a member of the romance language
department at Washington and Lee in 1919 as assistant pro-
fessor, was made associate professor in 1920 and full pro-
fessor in 1940. He was a member of Kappa Alpha social fra-
ternity and Omicron Delta Kappa campus leadership fra-
ternity.

Mr. Graham spoke French fluently and his courses in
both French and Spanish were much sought after by the
students. His broad knowledge and background and rare
sense of humor made these courses unusually interesting and
popular. FHlis interest in and knowledge of music was out-
standing, and in this and other fields he gave freely of his
talents when the occasion arose in both town and college
circles.

He was prominent among composers of the state and had
published carols, madrigals, folk songs and arrangements of
choral music that have been played and sung by orchestras
and choral groups throughout the country. His work with
the Presbyterian choir in Lexington for many years meant
much to the church. He directed the Washington and Lee
glee club for a number of years and the first performance
of the Troubadours, Washington and Lee dramatic society,
was under his direction. The courses he taught at the Uni-
versity included those in appreciation of art and music and

in this connection he had supervision of the music room in
the library building. Few things of merit in the fields of lit-
erature, music, art or the theater failed to elicit his interest.

Funeral services were conducted at the grave in Lexing-
ton cemetery Saturday at 5:30 p.m., by Dr. James J. Murray
of the Presbyterian church, and Dr. J. Edwin Bethea of R.
kK. Lee Memorial Episcopal church, of which Mr. Graham was
a member.

 

MARION JUNKIN EXHIBITS PAINTINGS

Marion M. Junkin, A.B. '27, Korean-born Virginia artist,
held his first one-man exhibition at the Joseph Luyber Gal-
leries in New York, February 17-March 8.

Junkin formerly taught at the Richmond School of Art and
is now on the faculty of Vanderbilt University. He has won
a number of awards including one purchase award. His paint-
ings have been accepted at the Cocoran Gallery, the Chicago
Annual, the Carnegie, and his work won wide acclaim at the
New York World’s Fair.

Included in the recent exhibit were several works in Old
Dominion settings, including his “Chesapeake” and ‘“Tide-
water Pattern.”

Of his one man showing, Howard Devree, art critic of the
New York Times, says, “The powerful figure painting by
which he was represented in the contemporary show at the
New York World’s Fair is very different from anything in
the one-man show of Marion Junkin’s work at the Joseph
Luyber Gallery in the Hotel Brevoort. There are humor and
fantasy in these southern scenes and groups of figures—a
dreamlike quality and a kind of gay surrealism. One expects
the negro girl in “portrait” to break into a sad spiritual. Live-
ly vagaries underlie “Fantastic Sunset.” Sails and fish recur
in his themes, and one feels that he has penetrated the minds
and souls of simple people and started their visions on their
own terms.”

 

GOODWIN UNCOVERS FORGED BALLOTS

George EK. Goodwin, Jr., B.A. ’39, was responsible for
splashing a well-documented story of forged ballots in the
gubernatorial contest in Georgia across the front page of
the Atlanta Journal. In the list of voters from Helena pre-
cinct in Telfair he discovered that the last 34 names were all
in alphabetical order, from A through K. Reasoning that
people don’t arrive at the polls in alphabetical order, he made
a person to person investigation and found that at least two
of the 34 had been dead for years, five had long since removed
from the county, five were willing to testify that they had not
voted and more than a dozen could not be found. This story
broke four days before the State Supreme Court began its
hearings on the electoral mess.

 

W. AND L. APARTMENT UNIT

A contract to construct an eight-unit faculty apartment
building to house Washington and Lee staff members and
their families has been awarded to J. P. Pettyjohn Company,
of Lynchburg, Virginia. The apartment will be located on
the corner of Washington and Estill streets in a residential
section known as Davidson Park, and will be ready for oc-
cupancy by September.

[ 14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

James Lewis Howe
of
Washington and Lee

(Reprint of an article appearing in
“The Commonwealth,”
March, 1947, by Sidney S. Negus)

  

ran

   
  

Dr. Howe, still active at 87, is the Dean of Virginia Chemists

Dr. James Lewis Howe, emeritus professor of chemistry
and university historian of Washington and Lee University,
is the dean of Virginia chemists. Born in Massachusetts
eighty-seven years ago, he is now busier than many scientists
half his age.

The writer recently spent a night in Dr. Howe's lovely,
old Georgian-style home on the campus of the university and
came away with a far better understanding of what is meant
by wisdom. The senior member of the faculty of Washington
and Lee possesses that quality in abundance. Fortunately for
the present generation of students at Washington and Lee,
Dr. Howe is still teaching chemistry in his fifty-second year
with the great southern school. Even grandsons of his form-
er students have had the privlege of his guidance.

About sixty-five years ago, after young Howe had com-
pleted his formal education in his chosen field at Amherst
College and at the universities of Gottingen and Berlin, he be-
gan looking about for a research project to which he could
devote whatever time he might have for investigative work
during the rest of his life.

He had become very much interested during his graduate
study in Germany in the work of Dr. Karl Klaus on the plati-
num metals, namely; platinum, osmium, palladium, rhodium,
ruthenium, and iridium. In a review of the scanty scientific
literature of that day concerning these elements, Dr. Howe
found that less was known about ruthenium than about the
other five, so he began his scholarly production in this field
by purchasing an ounce of a salt of this precious metal—to
“fool with,” as he puts it.

While he was reviewing the literature of the platinum
metals for 1882 and before, two copies of a Klaus bibliography
on the subject up to 1862 came into his possession. He checked
references given in the bibliography and found quite a num-
ber of errors. Dr. Howe decided then and there to clear the
list of these mistakes, to bring it up to date, and to keep it so.

One of the two copies of the Klaus bibliography that he
found has since been lost, but the other one is retained at
Washington and Lee as a highly prized pamphlet. It is Dr.
Howe's belief that this bibliography of the platinum metals

was the first systematic listing of publications in any chem-
ical field.

The results of Dr. Howe’s own research work on ruthen-
ium and other platinum metals have been published in nu-
merous articles and reviews in the scientific literature, and
his bibliographies have become international standards on
the subject. His first venture in this part of his project was
to list references that had been made concerning the platinum
metals from 1748 to 1897. This volume was published by the
Smithsonian Institution. In 1919, the Howe Bibliography of
the Platinum Metals, 1748-1917, was published as Bulletin
694 of the United States Geological Survey. This included the
material that had been listed in the Smithsonian publications.
Copies of both of these books are now extremely difficult to
obtain.

Another bibliography, which supplements Bulletin 694
and covers the years from 1918 through 1930, has recently
been printed. This 138-page volume was written by Dr. Howe
in collaboration with the staff of Baker and Company, Inc.
The work on another bibliography that will cover the years
from 1931 through 1940 has been completed, and the material
is nearly ready for publication. A succeeding volume will
list all references to articles about the platinum metals writ-
ten between 1941 and 1950. The references for the years of
1941 through 1943 are already in type.

Because of the decisions he made early in his career to
carry on investigative work in the field of platinum metals
and to publish from time to time comprehensive bibliographies
of all publications in every language concerning these metals,
Dr. Howe is now recognized as the world’s authority on the
subject.

This work should have been enough for any one man,
but it has been only the beginning for Washington and Lee’s
Howe. His many accomplishments of the past are listed in
Who’s Who in America, but he personally is interested in the
present and future. The present for him is portrayed in his
study where, as he says, everything is in a “logical mess.”
He explains the meaning of this expression by efficiently pick-
ing out of his “files,” which are scattered about on book-

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

cases and tables, material that has to do with his present in-
terests other than the platinum metals and with his university
courses on the development of chemical thought and general
industrial chemistry.

Dr. Howe keeps in one part of the room his almost com-
pleted historical notes concerning General Custis Lee who
succeeded his father, General Robert E. Lee, as president of
Washington and Lee. When completed, these notes will be de-
posited in the archives of Washington and Lee and some
day may be put into narrative form for publication.

Dr. Howe has known intimately every president of Wash-
ington and Lee since Custis Lee, and he has unbounded en-
thusiasm and admiration for Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines,
the present president.

The Howe study also holds about 40,000 postage stamps
collected by him and many books dealing with philately. As
far as Dr. Howe is concerned these stamps and books are
adequately separated from his records of the session, or
ruling body, of the Lexington Presbyterian Church, of which
he is clerk. Reference material having to do with the local
Kiwanis club, the Lexington town council, the Peoples Na-
tional Bank of Lexington, the Masons, the General Assem-
bly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and with various
state, national, and foreign scientific societies with which
he is associated, is all readily available—to Dr. Howe, that is.

Only a year after “Daddy” Howe, as he is known to
Washington and Lee students, came to Virginia from Ken-
tucky, where he had been professor of chemistry and dean
of the Louisville Hospital Medical College and College of
Dentistry, the question of admitting women students to
Washington and Lee was brought up in a faculty meeting.
The discussion was exceptionally lively, and the faculty vote
was tied until the Howe vote was cast to break the dead-
lock of education for men only.

It is not to be implied from this decision on his part that
Dr. Howe does not like the ladies. On the contrary, one of
his favorite lines in the second part of Goethe’s Faust, about
which he could fashion a fascinating address, is: “The Eternal
Feminine draws us on.”

The closest approach to coeducation at Washington and
Lee after this memorable faculty meeting was when a few
women were admitted at the 1942 summer session.

Dr. Howe’s five diplomas for his A.B., M.A., Ph.D., Sc.D.,
M.D. degrees are nowhere to be seen in his office or home;
nor are there any signs of his Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron
Delta Kappa connections and of the other honors that have
been bestowed upon him, such as the Herty Medal. But there
is a photograph of his great-grandson right on the grand
piano in the living room of his home, where presides his gra-
cious daughter, Miss Guendolen Howe.

A truly “big” man is Dr. Howe—a devout Christian, lover
of family, master teacher, student counselor, hobbyist, civic
leader, and world scientist.

The high regard for personal honor and honesty that is
intermingled with the atmosphere of congeniality that per-
vades Washington and Lee, and the presence on the faculty
of men like Dr. Howe, may explain the fact that so many
alumni of the two-century-old institution are substantial
citizens in their respective communities.

 

Local Chapter Meeting Notes

(Continued from page 13)

bell, Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Mann, Mr. and Mrs. Joe W. Dingess,
J. F. Strother, John Theobold, Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Norris,
Mrs. Wallace Williamson, Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Put-

nam, Eileen Freutel, Fred M. Bierney, Mr. and Mrs. James
EK. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Ira P. Baer, Mr. and Mrs. Rolland
C. Mossman, G. D. Mayor, Mr. and Mrs. John B. Blagg, Mr.
and Mrs. D. H. Putnam, Jr., Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Hooper,
Mr. and Mrs. Philip P. Gibson, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J.
Flynn, Mr. and Mrs. E. O. Nickell, Allen Overton, Mr. and
Mrs. C. F. Bagley, Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Long, Mr. and Mrs.
Selden S. McNeer, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Fitchett,
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. C. Mapo, Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Hodges,
Mr. and Mrs. Amos Bolen, Mr. and Mrs. Jay G. Henthorne,
Mr. and Mrs. B. B. Lovins, James H. Lovins, Mr. and Mrs.
Elliott Vawter, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Emmons, Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas W. Harvey, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Wilson and
Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Henshaw, Jr.

* * * * *

SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA, ALUMNI MEET

The local chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni met for
dinner at the Shreveport, Louisiana Country Club on the
evening of February 4. Alton Sartor, Jr., 41, president of
the North Louisiana chapter, presided. Allen Snyder, ’39, As-
sociate Director of the Bicentennial of the university, brought
the alumni up to date on plans for the Celebration to take
place in 1948-1949, and present activities on the campus.
Questions were asked about members of the faculty and
friends in Lexington. In addition to four prospective stu-
dents of Washington and Lee, the following alumni, wives
and “dates” were present:

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Day, Jr., Claude O’Quinn and Miss
Elizabeth Glassell, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Jeter, Jr., Mr. and
Mrs. Alton Sartor, George Madison, of Bastrop, Louisiana,
Lane Sartor, Staunton B. Sample, Jack Murrell and Miss
Betty Tucker, Greene Rives and Miss Betty Smith, of Mans-
field, Louisiana, Campbell Hutchison, Robert L. Garrett, R.
L, Berryman, Pike Hall, Jr., Lonnie Gaiennie, Marion Har-
grove, John D. Ewing, Jr., Allen Snyder.

oe ee

SOUTH CAROLINA ASSOCIATION FORMED

At an organization meeting held at the Hotel Columbia
in Columbia, South Carolina, on Tuesday, May 20, Leon W.
Harris, *15, was elected president of South Carolina Wash-
ington and Lee alumni association. Approximately fifty form-
er students of the University were present.

Other officers elected were: Senator T. B. Bryant of
Orangeburg, first vice-president; George Shore, Jr., of Sum-
ter, second vice-president; Clarence Ballenger of Spartan-
burg, third vice-president; Alvin Fleishman of Anderson,
fourth vice-president; and Fred D. Townsend of Columbia,
secretary-treasurer.

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of the University
and a native of South Carolina, was the guest speaker. In his
inspiring talk, he recounted the progress of the school since
its foundation 198 years ago, and reported on the University
as it stands today. He told of the Bicentennial celebration
which will be held in 1949, marking the 200-year history of
the institution.

Among guests introduced from the speaker’s table were:
Adm. Norman H. Smith, president of the University of South
Carolina; Dean Samuel Prince of the university law school;
J. M. Blalock, president of The State Company; George A.
Buchanan, Jr., editor of the Columbia Record; Hugh Ash-
craft and Grier Wallace, alumni members from Charlotte,
North Carolina.

Cy Young, alumni secretary, made a brief talk, urging
the organization of an alumni chapter in the state. Sam-
uel B. Moyle, °19, executive secretary of the Columbia com-
munity chest, presided until Mr. Harris was elected.

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Big Game Hunting in Africa

(Condensed from an article
in the Memphis Press Scimitar of March 24, 1947)

On April 23, 1909, Teddy Roosevelt sailed for Africa on a
hunting and scientific expedition and a dream was born in
the mind of a young Mississippi boy named Berry Brooks.
As he read in the papers about Teddy’s exploits, he would
say to himself, “Some day I'll go to Africa and hunt elephant
and lion and rhinoceros.” On April 20, almost 38 years to the
day from his dream’s birthday, Berry B. Brooks, Memphis
cotton broker, boarded a British Overseas Air Company
plane in New York, bound for the dark depths of Africa.

Berry and his wife and 13-year-old daughter, Virginia, will
fly to London, spend one week there, a week in Paris, one in
Rome and another in Cairo. Then they'll make a final hop to
Nairobi, Kenya Colony, British East Africa and spend 90
days hunting in the jungle. With an expected bag of 40 species
of game, they'll go to Johannesburg, South Africa, catch a
Pan-American Airlines plane for New York and arrive back
in Memphis on September 1.

Berry's father hunted bear and deer up and down the
Mississippi and the son inherited his love of the sport. Leav-
ing Washington and Lee in 1922, he went into the cotton
business in Memphis, but never stopped hunting and travel-
ing. He has made three expeditions to Mexico for game, one
of them last May, when he took a pack of hounds to Sonora
for six weeks of jaguar hunting. In 1939 he went to Alaska
and killed, among other things, a record Kodiak bear, which
weighed close to 2000 pounds.

The African trip, planned before the war, had to be post-
poned, but three months ago Berry started shipping over his
guns, ammunition, cameras and film. Typhus, typhoid and
yellow fever shots and smallpox vaccinations were taken and
the Brookses were ready for business.

At the first camp, which is 350 miles from Nairobi the
real hunting will begin. In the safari are 31 servants, including
gun-bearers, camera-bearers, skinners, cooks, drivers, per-
sonal servants and a mechanic. After two months Berry will
be ready to go into the treacherous, densely vegetated ele-
phant country, where the safari will move mostly on foot.
Mrs. Brooks and Virginia will go back to Nairobi and fly to
the Island of Zanzibar, Victoria Falls, Capetown and Johan-
nesburg, where they will be met by Berry when he’s through
with the tuskers.

The principal game hunted will be elephant, lion, rhin-
oceros and Cape buffalo but there will be other targets too—
leopard, hippopotamus, giraffe, zebra and smaller animals.

Back in Memphis on September 1, the dream will have
been fulfilled and the Brooks family can dream of the dream
that came true.

 

Edward H. Miller, ’28, until recently Special Assistant to
the Attorney General of the United States Anti-Trust Divi-
sion, became a member of the law firm of Cummings, Stan-
ley, Truitt & Cross, Commonwealth Building (7th floor) at
1625 K Street, N. W., Washington, D. C., on May 1, 1947.

 

John S. Beagle, ’36, is a member of the newly formed law
firm of Beagle, Stewart and Beagle. John was assistant at-
torney general in 1940 after serving as assistant prosecutor
in 1939. A member of the Board of Directors of Michigan
Bar Association, he was discharged from the Army in May,
1942, to accept a commission as ensign in the Navy. He served
two years in the Pacific and was discharged as a lieutenant
in 1945,

a)

F

  

«

ax

|
Rae x ;

 

 

 

Berry Brooks, ’24, and His Trophies

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE—HARVARD GRADUATE
SCHOOLS

Seventeen Washington and Lee alumni now in the various
graduate schools at Harvard held a get-together meeting in
the Student Club there on the evening of March 21. The
meeting was arranged by Larry Galloway, John Peeples and
Holly Smith and the following men were present: John
Peeples, Bob Mooney, Bill Webb, Lynn Holton, Ed Shannon,
Holly Smith, Ben Huntley, Dan Lewis, Don Garretson,
Grady Forgy, Harry Roediger, Bill Armstrong, Horace Jeter,
John Petot, Ted Bruinsma, Carter Refo, Frank Jarvis and
Larry Galloway. It is hoped to form a permanent organiza-
tion of Washington and Lee alumni in the Harvard Graduate
Schools.

 

DR. VARNER VISITS CAMPUS

Dr. John G. (Jack) Varner was a recent visitor to the
campus enroute to his new post at Assistant Cultural Rela-

tions Officer, American Embassy, Mexico City. He will be

in charge of exchange of students and scholars between the
United States and Mexico. He taught in the English Depart-
ment at Washington and Lee from 1938 to 1942, when he ac-
cepted a professorship in the American University in Car-
racus.

 

George S. Wilson, Jr., ’25, of Owensboro, Kentucky, was
recently elected President of the Kentucky Bar Association.
George was a former Class Agent, and is practicing law with
his father and brother, William L. Wilson, ’35.

[17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1883

1903

 

John T. Ireland lives in
Paris, Kentucky. He is asso-
ciated with Thomas, Wood-
ford and Company in the in-
‘surance business.

1886
Dr. John V. McCall, re-

tired Presbyterian minister
of Weatherford, Texas,
writes that he enjoys read-
ing The Alumni Magazine,

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters
to your Class Agent this year.

William P. Lamar lives
at 41 Muskogee Road, At-
lanta, Georgia. He writes a
nice letter to his class agent,
but gives no news of him-
self.

R. T. Flanary is still en-
gaged in mercantile business,
Norton Hardware Company,
Norton, Virginia, and on the
side a “little banking and

 

 

and then sends it on to an
1887 comrade “to tie him a bit more to the beloved institution.

1891

Thomas H. Davis is now retired and living with his wife
in Middleport, Ohio. He says he still enjoys reading news of
Washington and Lee in the Alumni Magazine.

1892

Dr. E. L. Green, Class Agent for 92, has completed forty-
six years of teaching in the Department of Ancient Languages
at the University of South Carolina, and is now retired. His
first teaching job was “Prep Greek” at Washington and Lee.
He received an honorary degree from Washington and Lee
in 1942. Home: 328 Sims Avenue, Columbia, South Carolina.

William G. Wigglesworth is in the farming and tobacco
warehouse business at Cynthiana, Kentucky.

Judge J. M. Woods is a member of the law firm of Spil-
man, Thomas and Battle, Charleston, West Virginia.

1893

Jake Fisher, is Judge of the Fourteenth Judicial Circuit
of West Virginia, Sutton, West Virginia.

1894

Walter McElreath will be associated as counsel to the
newly formed law firm of Dunaway, Riley and Howard, At-
lanta, Georgia.

1895

Dr. Robert P. Cooke resigned his position
as health officer for Lexington, Virginia, on
March 6, 1947. Dr. Cooke is widely known for
his connection with the Yellow Fever research
in Cuba in 1900.

A portrait honoring Dr. Cyrus W. Strick-
ler, Sr.. Emory University professor emeritus
of clinical medicine, was presented to Kmory
Hospital at a dinner held at the University
on April 1, 1947. Dr. Strickler is a son of the =
late Dr. G. B. Strickler, Rector of Washing- w@
ton and Lee University from 1899 to 1913, and
a brother of Mrs. Denny, wife of Dr. George
H. Denny, president of the University from
1901 to 1911,

  
 

cattle raising.”

J. F. Wysor is county Treasurer of Pulaski County, Vir-
ginia.

B. F. Combs writes that he is in the same old place, same
old work, work, work. Same old story, but happy, neverthe-
less. He is a member of the law firm of Combs & Combs,
Kirst National Bank Building, Prestonsburg, Kentucky.

1906

Daniel W. Alexander has been with the United States
Tariff Commission in Washington, D. C., since June 15, 1922.
Home: 4707 Piney Branch Road, Washington, D. C.

1908

Clyde L. Green has been superintendent of the Robeson
County Public Schools, Lumberton, North Carolina. Robeson
County has a three-race school system—white, Indian and
Negro. This is the only county in North Carolina, and in the
United States, so far as Mr. Green knows, that has a three-
race school situation. He has two sons, Clyde, Jr., 13, and
Tommy, 7.

Abram P. Staples has been re-elected Attorney General
of Virginia for another four-year term.

Phil Page reports that there is not much change in his
status but that his situation is a happy and congenial one.
He is with the Chicago Journal of Commerce
at 12 East Grand Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Colonel Lewis C. Gordon, U.S. A. Retired,
is living at 1304 College Avenue, Houghton,
Michigan.

Hiram M. Dow, Roswell, New Mexico,
Chairman of the Interstate Compact Com-
mission, which met in Birmingham, Alabama,
in April, took this occasion to have a reunion
with former friends and classmates.

1909

Ewing S. Humphreys has been running the
Southern District office of Virginia Bridge
Company for many years, hence there are no
changes in his business connections or activi-
ties. His son, Ewing S., Jr., received his A.B.
degree at Washington and Lee before embark-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ing on a career in the Marine Corps. He is now safely back
at home and entering the Harvard Graduate School of Busi-
ness for his Master’s degree.

A. H. Chandler taught in Fredericksburg College and
later in Baltimore Polytechnic Institute for several years af-
ter leaving Washington and Lee and then went with the Con-
solidated Gas and Electric Power Company of Baltimore in
the Industrial Power Department, where he is still working.
He was married in 1915 and has two daughters.

Kester W. Denman, Mantooth & Denman, Attorneys, Luf-
kin National Bank Building, Lufkin, Texas, is glad to have
his older son back in the office with him after two years in
the Southwest Pacific as a PT boat commander. His younger
son was discharged from the Navy on June 1.

L. T. Wilson is Dean and Administrative Aid for the
Mathematics Department, United States Naval Academy.

Amos L. Herold is teaching in the department of English,
University of Texas, in the field of American Literature, in
which he majored at Columbia University.

G. J. Dominick is with the Sherwin-Williams Paint Com-
pany, Box 812 Knoxville, Tennessee. He has four children,
all married, and eight grandchildren.

Dr. Charles Watkins has recently accepted a position as
head of the chemistry department at Lincoln Memorial Col-
lege, Morristown, Tennessee, effective July 1, 1947. Dr. Wat-
kins has been teaching chemistry at Carnegie Tech in the
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College for the past 32 years,
and has directed this college for 14 years.

Elliott Vawter is Secretary of Barrows & Company, In-
corporated, Miners and Shippers, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Morton L. Lazarus says he has accumulated many grey
hairs, three grand-children, and some of the infirmities of old
age, but on the whole life has been good to him. Address:
914 Brooks Lane, Baltimore 17, Maryland.

1910

D. Walter Earman has been practicing law in Harrison-
burg, Virginia since 1910, and served as Commonwealth’s
Attorney from 1920-1940. He is now a member of the law
firm of Earman and Ruebush, doing general practice in Rock-
ingham County and the Valley of Virginia.

1911

J. Tom Watson, Attorney General State of Florida, ‘Talla-
hassee, Florida, was the very efficient editor of the Law Class
of 1911 Annual, published each year since the class graduated.
Of the class reunion last Finals he says: “I can truthfully say
that I have had no personal experience throughout my years
of activity since leaving college, outside of family circles, that
afforded me any more real genuine pleasure than meeting on
this occasion with those of our 1911 law class whom I saw
there—it was real fun.”

W. A. Reid, Troutville, Virginia, was named “Man of the
Year for Botetourt County, Virginia.” He is vice-president
and cashier of the Troutville bank.

Ben P. Ainsworth spent the winter in Florida, but will
return to Lexington in the spring. Both of his daughters are

married to veterans and his son, Ned, has joined the Naval
Air Reserve Training Unit at Miami, Florida.

George Bell has spent much of his time in the last few
years in Georgia and says there is never a dull moment there
politically. He says that he rather expects under the new Re-
publican Congress to hear of a bill being presented petition-
ing that Georgia be transferred to South America where it
will be right at home among the turbulent republics.

Douglas S. Tinsley practiced law for a short time and then
served eighteen months in World War I. He then forsook
the legal profession and has been engaged in newspaper work
for the past 25 years. He has been with the Florida ‘Times-
Union for the past 13 years and is now Night News-Editor.
He married a “newspaper woman” some 25 years ago and
as she was used to the vagaries of that profession, they have
had interesting experiences in their travels about the country.

Donald T. Stant says the reunion last Finals has caused
him to resolve never to miss another one. He is practicing law
in Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. His oldest daughter recently
received her Bachelor of Architecture degree from Columbia
University.

Luther G. Scott is practicing law in Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia with offices in the Commercial Bank Building. He
thoroughly enjoyed the class reunion last June and is looking
forward to the next one at the time of the Bicentennial Cele-
bration in 1949,

Herman A. Sacks was unable to attend the class reunion
last June. His son, Stanley Elliott, who received his B.A.,
cum laude, in January, 1947, is now a student in the law
school.

Omer Kaylor is practicing law in Hagerstown, Maryland,
and reports that his oldest son, Tom, was released from the
Navy a year ago and his second son, Howard, arrived from
the Pacific area last August. Tom is now a student in the
Law School and Howard a freshman at Washington and Lee.

Herbert B. Gregory, Judge of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia, Roanoke, reports a fine meeting of the
local alumni Chapter on the eve of the Washington and Lee-
William and Mary football game. He reports that there are
now four W. and L. men on the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia, out of a membership of seven, the present Chief Jus-
tice being Hon. Henry W. Holt, LL.B. ’88.

George Chaney greatly enjoyed the reunion of the class
last year and says the men who were present looked very
little older to him than during 1910 and 1911. His two older
boys are out of the service and the youngest son has entered
\V.P.I. for a technical course. George is practicing law in
Roanoke, Virginia with offices in the Colonial-American Na-
tional Bank Building.

1912

Rev. W. Graham Wood has recently become pastor of the
Beaver Creek, Walnut Grove and High Point churches of
Washington County, Virginia. His address is now Wyndale,
Virginia.

H. E. Potter, 1604 Pennsylvania Building, Northwest cor-
ner of Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-

vania, says he is still practicing law in Philadelphia and still
a bachelor.

Arlos J. Harbert is Judge of the Criminal Court of Har-
rison County, Clarksburg, West Virginia. ;

[19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1913

R. R. (Bob) Witt, President of Builders Supply Company,
San Antonio, Texas, was a visitor to Lexington, which is his
home town, early in the spring.

Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, President of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association, is practicing law in Lynchburg,
Virginia, with offices in the Peoples National Bank Building.

S. C. Rose is carrying on with cotton, corn and hay as
well as a herd of Angus cattle on his farm, Roselands, Wa-
verly Road, West Point, Mississippi. He says there is a re-
newed interest in golf in West Point and the Roseland Golf
Course on his place is being used to advantage.

T. L. Keister is Judge of the Twentieth Judicial Circuit
of Virginia, and makes his home in Salem, Virginia.

Ryland G. Craft, Class Agent for 1913-Law, is a member
of the House of Delegates of Virginia, Scott County, Gate
City, Virginia.

1914

Colonel Francis P. Miller was the speaker in a series of
addresses on the theme of “The Christian and the World To-
day,” delivered at the Presbyterian Church, Lexington, Vir-
ginia during the week before Easter. Colonel Miller served
with SHAEF in London, Paris, and Berlin in World War II
and now holds the rank of colonel in the Reserve Officer’s
Corps.

1915

Morgan Keaton received an unusual Christmas present
this season. A couple of days before Christmas the Secretary
of War mailed Keaton a commendation citation authorizing
him to wear the Army Commendation Ribbon in recognition
of meritorious performance of duty. The citation, signed by
Lieutenant General Lucius D. Clay, the Deputy Military
Governor, said: “As Chief of Economic Detachment E-1,
First Military Government (Sep) at Stuttgart, Germany,
from 1 July 1945 to 4 March 1946, integrated the Trade and
Commerce, Industry, Restitution, Food and Agriculture,
Forestry, and Transportation Branch into a well organized
Economic Division. He exhibited unusual ability and ini-
tiative in organizing a Ministry of Economics under the most
trying and adverse conditions. His outstanding initiative and
ability and high degree of administrative and organizational
experience, coupled -with his energy and loyalty reflects great
credit upon himself and the Armed Forces of the United
States.” Keaton attained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel
while overseas as well as serving as First Lieutenant, In-
fantry, in World War I. Address: P. O. Box 607, Sacramen-
to, California.

Jonah L. Larrick has been Executive Secretary of the
Y.M.C.A., at the Medical College of Virginia for the past
twenty-three years. He has acquired a wife and two children.

1916

Henderson Estes is practicing law with offices in the First
American Bank Building, Middletown, Ohio. He served as
City Attorney for Middletown from 1930 to 1934, and was As-
sistant Attorney General for Ohio in charge of legal work of
liquidations of Building and Loan Associations in 1937 and
1938.

John W. May, studied law after leaving Washington and
Lee and was admitted to the Bar in 1918. He then went into

the laundry business but failed during the depression of 1929.
He is now a salesman of laundry supplies for the Sterne and
Maley Company, 3710 North Pennsylvania Street, Indianapo-
lis 5, Indiana. He has two daughters ages 14 and 16.

M. Cecil (Jack) Horner is Field Assistant, The Equitable
Life Insurance Society, Bank of Commerce Building, Mor-
ristown, Tennessee.

1917

Marshall Twyman is practicing law with his brother Lewis,
"13, under the firm name of Twyman Brothers, 999 South-
west First Street, Miami, Florida. However, Lewis spends
much of his time in Virginia and has left the actual practice
in Miami to Marshall.

Gus Ottenheimer is a member of the firm of Ottenheimer
Brothers, Manufacturers of Women’s Apparel, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

E. P. Barrow is practicing law in Lawrenceville, Virginia.
He has been busy with his practice and matters pertaining
to the State Highway system.

1918

Adolph S. (Sim) Marx is still with The Mueller Company,
Ltd., 625-631 Ryan Street, Lake Charles, Louisiana, “For
More than Sixty Years the Best Place to Shop.”

Jim Izard is a member of the firm of Charles Lunsford
and Sons, Insurance, Colonial American National Bank Build-
ing, Roanoke, Virginia.

1919

Sim B. Christy has been with the Sun Oil Company ever
since leaving Washington and Lee. He is now District Man-
ager for the Sun Oil Company, 800 South Cedar Street, Lan-
sing 12, Michigan.

Dr. T. Dewey Davis is still practicing medicine in Rich-
mond, Virginia. His son, Tommy, is now in high school and
is looking forward to going to Washington and Lee in about
three years. |

1922

George W. Taliaferro, 77 North Main Street, Harrison-
burg, Virginia, is a member of the House of Delegates.

1923

Frank B. Hurt has been professor of political science at
Western Maryland College, Westminster, Maryland, since
1930. After leaving W. and L. he did graduate work at the
University of Virginia, Princeton, Johns Hopkins and Har-
vard, and has taken graduate degrees in both economics and
history.

J. Vaughn Penn has been living in New York for seven-
teen years. He is married and has two daughters, 14 and 11.
He is associated with his brother-in-law, George Mason,
class agent for '23-Academic, in Gem-Dandy, Inc., manufac-
turers of men’s suspenders, belts, garters, neckties and ladies’
foundation garments. He is in the New York office while
George is located at Madison, North Carolina.

Fred C. Henritze, since leaving Washington and Lee, has
been in the lumber business, plumbing and heating, and at
present is a hardware salesman for the Stratton and Ters-
tigge Hardware Company of Louisville, Kentucky. His home
is in Harlan, Kentucky.

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1924

Bayard Malone, Jr., is an Associate in the law offices of
Ed. W. Harris, Florida National Bank Building, St. Peters-
burg, Florida. His oldest son, Bayard, III, was in the Army
and his two younger sons are in senior high school.

W. Clyde Dennis is practicing law in Grundy, Virginia.
He was recently appointed State Advisor by the American
Bar Association upon the Courts of Small Claims. His older
son was in Europe when his letter was written in May, and
the other in elementary school.

H. L. Shuey is President of Morganton Furniture Com-
pany, Morganton, North Carolina; Vice-President of a hos-
iery mill and a Director “of the usual number of things that
are imposed upon one in a small Southern town.”

John W. Greene is practicing law in the Park National
Bank Building, Knoxville, Tennessee. He has two children, a
boy and a girl. Has recently been made a member of the City
Planning Commission, which he calls “a headache job.”

Charles A. Cohen is a member of the law firm of Cohen,
Justin and Neustein, 475 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, New
York. He has a young son, Peter, aged 14, who he trusts will
find his way to Washington and Lee in September, 1949.

J. Melvin Lovelace, Class Agent for ’24-L, is Common-
wealth’s Attorney for the City of Suffolk, Virginia.

Ran Whittle is still in the general practice of law, Boxley
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. His family consists of Mrs.
Whittle, two boys and a girl.

Sinclair Phillips, in addition to retaining his connection
in the law firm of Phillips, Marshall and Blalock, is also in
the transportation buisness. A group of local people pur-
chased the Transportation Department of the Virginia Elec-
tfic and Power Company that operates from Newport News,
Hampton, Old Point and vicinity, of which he is president.

Matt Matheney is practicing law in El Dorado, Arkansas,
with offices in the Exchange Building. His wife and son were
recent visitors to the campus.

Dr. John T. Collins has recently moved from Charleston,
West Virginia, to Lewisburg, where he is practicing optom-
etry. He has two daughers, now fifteen and sixteen, attending
the girls’ junior college there.

Albert M. Pickus, Stratford Theatre, 2424 Main Street,
Stratford, Connecticut, has been in the theatre business since
he left Washington and Lee. His oldest daughter graduated
from Fairfax Hall two years ago. He has another daughter,
fifteen years old, and a son ten years old. Al visited the cam-
pus two years ago but “liked it better when we were there
at school.” Thanks, Al. All your classmates would feel bad
if their absence didn’t leave something to be desired. And,
particularly at this time of year, we envy your existence in
Stratford. It is a great little part of the world.

1925

Philip Howerton has been in the insurance business for
twenty years and has had his own agency since 1935, cover-
ing the western half of North Carolina. He is General Agent
for the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company with
offices in the Johnston Building, Charlotte, North Carolina.
His only child is a son ten years old which he says seems
rather strange to him, having been the seventh of eight chil-
dren himself.

Clarence E. Hinkle, Roswell, New Mexico, was very mea-
ger in giving information about himself, but did state he was
always glad to get the class letter and keep in touch with the
members. His firm is Hervey, Dow, Hill and Hinkle and he
is serving as a member of the New Mexico State Senate.

Edwin W. Brown has moved from Pittsburgh to Indiana,
Pennsylvania. He is with the office of Deputy Collector, In-
ternal Revenue Service. Address: Box 654, Indiana, Pennsyl-
vania.

1926

Robert E. Lee is assistant attorney for the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company, at 706 Perrine Build-
ing, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. After Washington and Lee
he went to Vanderbilt where he graduated in law in 1927
and entered the general practice of law in Oklahoma City.
He entered the Army in 1942 and was with the Air Forces
for four years, attaining the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.

Richard Thatcher is “doing sales work for the rayon di-
vision of duPont for the past 17 years” and has lived in Buf-
falo, Chicago, Charlotte, New York City and for the past
four years in Philadelphia. He married in 1932 and has a
daughter. His address is 117 South 17th Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Burke Williamson is practicing law at 39 South LaSalle
Street in Chicago. “After I finished W. and L.” he writes, “I
was graduated from Northwestern University Law School and
have practiced in Chicago since that time. In 1934, I joined
in the organization of the law firm of Adams, Nelson and
Williamson, and am still with that firm. My brother Jack, W.
and L,. 30, has been with our firm since 1937.” Burke en-
tered the U. S. Army as a private in 1942 and was released
from active duty in 1945 as a Captain in the Infantry. He
married Elsie Hamill Clow of Lake Forest, Illinois, in 1939
and they have two daughters, Eleanor and Rosalie. He lives
at 1165 North Sheridan Road, Lake Forest, Illinois.

Henry H. Breazeale is a field underwriter for the Mutual
Life Insurance Company at Natchitoches, Louisianna. After
leaving W. and L,. he studied law at Tulane and Loyola and
passed the Louisiana Bar in 1925. Practiced three years but
quit to become deputy in the District Clerk’s office. Entered
the Army in 1941 and spent sixteen months overseas. Mar-
ried seventeen years, no children.

Edward Matz is with the Kurly Kate Corporation, man-
ufacturers of metal sponges at 2215 South Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois. After W. and L. he was in the coal business
in Raven, Virginia. In 1929, went to Louisville where for ten
years he engaged in the real estate business. “In 1939,” he
writes, “I moved to Chicago where I am president of the
Kurly Kate Corporation, manufacturers of domestic pot
cleaners, industrial metal sponges and air filter units now be-
ing used on automobiles. During the war, our production was
to make filters for tanks and planes.” He is married, one son,
aged 16. “Every now and then I run into one of the boys
from school and needless to say, I am always happy to see
him. Will be pleased to see any of the boys when they are in
Chicago. My address is in the phone directory.”

Lee Fagan is an auditor for the Greyhound bus lines work-
ing out of Charleston, West Virginia. “On the road seven days
a week,” he writes, “covering our lines from Pittsburgh to
Jacksonville, Cincinnati to Norfolk and Washington to At-
lanta.” Vital statistics: not married; still happy.”

Dr. S. George Wolfe is with the Children’s Clinic, 1560

[21 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Line Avenue, Shreveport, Louisiana. “I finished school at the
University of Texas,” he writes, “where I taught for a time
in the department of Biology. Later I graduated*from the
Harvard Medical school and took graduate work in Pediatrics
in Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Boston. Even with all this
I have been in practice almost eleven years. Time does fly!
But, in passing it did give me time to acquire a lovely wife
and two children, all three of whom naturally are too good
for me.”

C. J. Wallen is supervising engineer, Virginia Hot Springs,
Inc., Hot Springs, Virginia. He was released in February,
1946, as captain of engineers of U. S. Army after three years
service overseas. He attained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
Married Mabel Hudgins Goodman and has one daughter,
Charlotte Louise. “I hope that some day in the near future,”
he writes, “I will have the pleasure of meeting some of the
fellows at Washington and Lee.”

Eugene A. Nabors recently returned to his duties as a
member of the law faculty at Tulane University after three
and a half years in the Naval Reserve where he attained the
rank of Lieutenant Commander. “My last tour of duty,” he
says, “was with the Naval Inspector General at Washington,
D.C. where I had the pleasure of serving with William C.
Watson and Ed Graves. It is more pleasant to be a professor
of law than a lieutenant commander.”

Emmett W. MacCorkle, ex-commander in the Navy, has
recently been transferred from the Air Reduction Sales Com-
pany, Wheeling, West Virginia, to Portland, Oregon, where
he is manager of the Portland District of the company. Ad-
dress: 430 N. W., Tenth Avenue, Portland 9, Oregon.

1927

John Strickler is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia. His
son is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Gibson Witherspoon is President of the Meridian Bar As-
sociation, Meridian, Mississippi.

George F. Maynard, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Maynard, Fitzgerald and Maynard, Clarksdale, Mississippi.
He was married in 1928 and has a son 15 years old, a daughter
12, and another daughter 5.

Gossett McRae is with the Waterman Steamship Corpora-
tion, 19 Rector Street New York 6, New York, having been
transferred there from Mobile about ten years ago. He is
married and has a son 3% years old and lives in Manhattan
at 122 East 36th Street.

Joseph L. Lanier, West Point, Georgia, is in favor of a re-
union of his class in 1947. He is married and has three nice
children.

W. E. (Steam) Gage says he spends his weekends batting
around in his grasshopper plane. No longer in the cotton
business, he represents Refinite Corporation. He expects to
settle down on a farm near Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Address:
711 Falls Building, Memphis, Tennessee.

L. Vaughan Grady is Vice-President of the Home In-
demnity, 59 Maiden Lane, New York, New York. In his class
picture he looks as if he weighed about 160 pounds. He has
recently reduced from 240 to 225 pounds.

Allen Harris is up to his neck in the lumber business as
Vice-President of the Harris Manufacturing Company, John-
son City, Tennessee. In the last issue of the Alumni Mag-

azine we published an announcement of his marriage on Jan-
uary 4, 1947, to Ruth Roberts Meierhof.

Joseph E. Birnie was in Lexington for the meeting of
regional chairmen for the Bicentennial Fund in April. He is
president of the Bank of Georgia and lives at 34 Peachtree
Street, Atlanta 1, Georgia.

Charles L. Claunch is a member of the law firm of Taber,
Chambliss, Swafford and Claunch. He is the proud father of
two boys—Charles, 12 and Nathan, 8, and a daughter Peggy,
4. He is specializing in income tax and corporation law.

Kenneth Durham moved to Des Moines, Iowa, to become
president of the Rollins Hosiery Mills, but since that time
has started a company of his own which is located in Osceola,
Iowa, about thirty miles from Des Moines. He married Jo
Snowden of Sweet Briar and they have a spacious home and
four charming children. Address: Snowden, Incorporated,
Osceola, Iowa. :

Matt Jennings says he is 40 and fattening, bald-headed
but happy. He married Elizabeth Gossom from Oklahoma in
1930 and they have a 12 year old son. Matt is interested in
breeding registered Jersey cattle. For the past seven years
he has been secretary-treasurer of the Tennessee Jersey Cat-
tle Club, the largest State Jersey Club in America. Also is
connected with the Department of Agriculture, State of Ten-
nessee, as chief of Division of Markets. He and his brother
Jim, also a classmate, operate two separate 300 acre farms.

J. Preston Moore was in the Navy and spent 18 months in
London attached to Admiral Stark’s Headquarters. Having
been professor of history at the Citadel, he is now teaching
at Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

M. E. (Buster)Newbern, Jr., is manager of the College
Book Store, Arkansas State Teachers College, Conway, Ar-
kansas. His wife is Dean of Women. His boy is 6 feet, 3 inches
tall.

George E. Burks, your class agent, is owner of Hummel,
Meyer and Burks, one of the oldest insurance agencies in
Louisville, Kentucky. He represents the Home and Hartford
Insurance Companies. He married Dorothy Hereford, a
Wellesley graduate and they have two daughters, Betty, 8
and Anne, 5.

Fanning Hearon was a Commander and Photographic
Officer on Bikini atom bomb tests. He is now in motion pic-
ture production, RKO Pathe, Incorporated, 625 Madison
Avenue, New York, New York. He is married and has four
children, Mary Southgate, born in 1933, Baylies Brewster,
born in 1935, and twins, Sarah and Fanning, Jr., born in 1946,

Rabbi David Herchell Wice, Temple B’nai Jeshurun,
Newark, New Jersey, has accepted a call from Temple
Rodeph Shalom, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, one of the old-
est reform Jewish congregations in the United States, and
will assume his new duties on September 1, 1947. Rabbi Wice
was one of the speakers at the Washington and Lee Religious
Emphasis Week in March. He has been active in numerous
philanthropic, civic, religious and inter-faith organizations.
Rabbi Wice is a B. A. of 1927 and an M.A. of 1928 and was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

1928

Herbert H. Butler is now Assistant General Manager for
the independent group of telephone companies operating
throughout the State of Illinois. His address is 1307 East
Washington Street, Bloomington, Illinois.

[ 22 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1929

Richard P. Carter is president and treasurer of the newly
formed firm of Houck & Company of Florida—an affiliate of
the advertising firm of the same name in Roanoke, Virginia—
under a state charter, and has opened offices in the DuPont
Building, Miami, Florida.

James Marshall Faulkner has recently been made assis-
tant to the president of the Marvil Package Company of Lau-
rel, Delaware, and has moved there with his wife and two
daughters.

1931

H. R. Mahler, Jr., has been pastor of the Presbyterian
Church in Richwood, West Virginia, for the past six years.
He married the former Beth Bagby of Lynchburg, Virginia
and they have a daughter, Beth Ann, approaching three years
old. He finds recreation in gardening and trout fishing, hav-
ing some of the best trout streams of West Virginia in his
area.

Frank T. Bready, recently class agent for ’31, is a member
of the firm, Trident Brokerage Company, Manufacturers
Agents, 100 Hudson Street, New York 13, New York.

Lecnard Glover is still with the Lynchburg Engraving
Company, where he has’ been for the past fifteen years, ex-
cepting a brief tour with the Air Force. Address: 208-210
Fifth Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Bob Fangboner owns a chain of country grain elevators
and coal yards, known as The Fangboner Seed Company,
Fremont, Ohio. He is married and has two daughters, aged

7 and 3.

Paul A. Hornor is president of Hornor Brothers Engineer-
ing, Civil and Mining, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Dr. Leonard C. Borland, is practicing dentistry at 901
South Oak Park Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.

Fred Barron is still with the lumber division of revived
OPA. Address: Northwood Apartments, Apartment 281, 4400
Marble Hall Road, Baltimore 18, Maryland.

Alfred D. Noyes is a member of the law firm of Smith,
Lamar, Cantrel and Noyes, Rockville, Maryland. He is mar-
ried and has three children, a son Buddy, 10, and two daugh-
ters, Sheila and Nancy Lee, eleven and five respectively.

John M. Stemmons is in the real estate business with of-
fices in the Republic Bank Building, Dallas 1, Texas. He is
married and they have a four-year-old daughter, Allison, and
a two-year-old son, John, Jr.

1932

William D. Hoyt, Jr., is Secretary of the Maryland Histori-
cal Society, 201 West Monument Street, Baltimore 1, Mary-
land. He has many civic and church interests in Baltimore,
and has written and published many scholarly articles in his
chosen field of endeavor.

Dick Parmelee is Manager of the Hotel Ventura, Ash-
land, Kentucky. He is married and has a daughter, Barbara
Louise, born July 16, 1946.

John C. Harris, now discharged from the Army, is back
with the Scottsboro Wholesale Grocery Company, Scotts-
boro, Alabama.

1933

Commander H. Arthur Lamar, now stationed at the U.S.
Naval Academy, directed the production of “Blithe Spirit,”
the Naval Relief Show produced April 18.

Henry D. Foote, Jr., is vice-president and general manager
of H. D. Foote Lumber Company, Alexandria 5, Louisiana.
He says he has a happy life with his family consisting of a
wife and four children, three of them destined for Washington
and Lee.

1934
William R. Schildknecht has been working for the M. J.

Grove Lime Company for the past nine years, and is now As-
sistant Treasurer of that organization. He married Harriet
Kennedy, of his home town, in 1940, and they have two
daughters, Ann and Susan. Home: 512 Magnolia Avenue,
Frederick, Maryland.

Walter James Dixon is the owner and operator of Dixon
Box Company, Greenville, South Carolina, manufacturer of

‘folding paper boxes. He has been married eight years and is

the father of a super-fine son, James Kent Dixon, born Au-
gust 4, 1945.

Dr. George H. Foster, will be added to the English De-
partment at Washington and Lee next year. Dr. Foster will
be in charge of the public speaking classes, Forensic Union,
and intercollegiate debate program. He will replace Profes-
sor George Jackson, who, having been granted a year’s leave
of absence to work in the State Department, decided to re-
main with the State Department instead of returning to Wash-
ington and Lee. After taking his A.B. and M.A. at W. and L.,
Dr. Foster taught here a year after graduation, earned a Ph.D.
at the University of North Carolina and taught at L. 5. U.
for a year before-the war. During the war he served in the
Navy, taking an active part in writing for the Navy educa-
tional program. He is married and has two children.

S. A. Woolford is Manager of Retail Stores Division of
John Lucas and Company, Incorporated, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania, having been with the same company for eleven years.
Their retail stores are scattered from Tampa, Florida, to
Rochester, New York. He is married and has two little girls,
one 5%, and the other 2%.

1935

Harry Brown Miller has resigned as head of the Chemis-
try Department, Armstrong Junior College, Savannah,
Georgia, to accept a position as professor of chemistry at
Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, North Carolina, at the
end of the present session.

Bill Dyer, after 2% years in the Navy, is cartooning for
the Knoxville News-Sentinel, Knoxville, Tennessee. ““Whatta
Life,” a feature cartoon which points up the week’s leading
events, is now appearing on the front page of the Sentinel’s
Sunday Magazine. He is also keeping busy with his story il-
lustrations, a regular “Nameless Cartoon,” as well as a syn-
dicated comic strip.

1937
Horace S. (Hoss) Richardson is with the Boys’ Club of
Bethlehem, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and thoroughly enjoys

his work. Address: 115 East Fourth Street, Bethlehem, Penn-
sylvania.

Ernest C. Barrett, Jr., is still with the Richmond Times-

[23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dispatch and News Leader. Residence address: 4712 Rolfe
Road, Westmoreland Place, Richmond 21, Virginia.

Emerson Dickman, Jr., is now in the car upholstering busi-
ness with his father-in-law, 762-64 Montgomery Street, Jer-
sey City, New Jersey, and lives at 296 Edgewood Drive, West
Knglewood, New Jersey, where he recently bought a home.

Norman Iler is with the Creasey Company, wholesale
grocers, Louisville, Kentucky. Address: 1301 West Main
Street, Louisville, Kentucky.

Lamar Rau is employed in The Library of Congress in
Washington, D. C. His home is in Charles Town, West Vir-
ginia. °

C. Donald Price was in service with the Field Artillery,
seeing action in France and Germany, and was discharged
in March, 1946. At present he is with his father’s firm, a large
real estate and insurance organization. He is married and has
a son nearly four years old. Address: 231 North 18th Street,
East Orange, New Jersey.

Lieutenant Stanley C. Higgins, Jr—care of Mahan, Bacon
and White, Fayetteville, West Virginia. “I came home on
November 28 and find that my young son will be a worthy
addition to Washington and Lee in several years from now.
| have attempted to return to the practice of law and find that
I not only have no clients, but when I do talk to some indivd-
ual who might become one, I don’t know exactly what he
wants me to do. In any event I am happy to be back. I final-
ly got that sea duty I was hollering about and was assigned
to the APA 177 as Navigator. You can be assured that my
navigation caused considerable confusion in the ranks of
those who were devotees of Dutton and Bowditch. It was
obvious that I had discovered a system of my own, which,
while perhaps not strictly in accordance with the books, at
least let us hit the genéral vicinity of what we were aiming
for. | saw a great many Washington and Lee boys, Louis
Walker, Joe Michell, Melvin Pullan and several others and
enjoyed being with them all.”

Edward E. Stover—First National Bank Building, Wash-
ington, N. J. “I was glad to hear that none of the boys suf-
fered any losses during the war and that all are back home
now. | was down at school last Thanksgiving and spent a
few days and thoroughly enjoyed the stay although the reg-
ular classes were not under way at that time since the govern-
ment was still conducting classes in the buildings. However,
I did get to see McDowell and attended his class. The build-
ing has been changed quite considerably and I hope will now
bring many good hopes and fond memories for the incoming
students.”

James A. McClure, Jr.—215 20 Avenue, N. E. Street, St.
Petersburg, Florida. “I got out of the service in the middle of
January and have reopened my office along with Ed Turville,
of the Academic class of 1936. Business here is good and so
we aren't starving to death, yet. In order to let the people know
that I am back in the old stall, I decided to run for the Leg-
islature and am inclosing one of the political cards. My race
is a tough one, my opponent having served three terms, and
so I have quit practice and am devoting all of my time to
politics between now and the primary. Thank goodness there
are only two of us in the race so the first Primary will settle
the matter. The Republicans decided not to give us any com-
petition and did not even qualify a man, as the Primary will
tell the whole story. | made two stripes, Lieutenant to you
guys in the Army, in July of 1944. At that time I was sta-
tioned ashore in New York, having gone down there from

duty afloat on the North Atlantic. The first of January of
1945 I took charge of a unit in Australia. From there I went
to the East Indies and then to the Mariannas by way of the
Philippines, prior to being released.”

Add Wagner—601-3 Security National Bank Building,
Battle Creek, Michigan. “As for information about myself,
there isn’t a great deal to say, except that I am a civilian once
again and back at the practice of law. This time, however, in
a partnership with my sister and father under the firm name
of Wagner, Wagner and Wagner. This has proven to be, and
I am sure will continue to be, a very enjoyable association,
even though I do at times have difficulty in convincing them
that there is another law school other than the University
of Michigan. Also, since my return I have been appointed
as Assistant City Attorney on a part time basis and find the
work very interesting. At the present time it occupies a con-
siderable part of my time, inasmuch as the City has just
taken over Kellogg Field from the Army as a Municipal
Airport, the operation of which presents some very interest-
ing problems, along with the preparation of ordinances for
fire prevention, a building code and for the installation of
parking meters. As for my family, we still have but one son,
who is now three years old.”

James A. Blalock, 1520 State Street, Jackson, Mississippi.
“T had the great good fortune to spend the evening of Fri-
day, April 27, with Dr. Gaines who was visiting Jackson to
address the Governor’s Second Conference on Rural Life in
Mississippi. Dr. Gaines delivered a splendid and stirring ad-
dress using as his central theme the thought that a nation’s
real wealth lies not in its farms or in its factories, but in the
minds of its people. Dr. Gaines, as you know, originally came
from Mississippi; and present with us that evening was my
good friend, Oliver Emmerich, from McComb, who, as I re-
call, was best man at Dr. Gaines’ wedding.”

Lieutenant James P. Baker, Jr.—221 St. Andrews Terrace,
West Helena, Arkansas. “I arrived home November 20, 1945,
after thirty-nine consecutive months overseas in England,
Africa, Italy, France, Philippine Islands (direct from Mar-
seille to Manila) and Japan, going in on the invasion there. I
was in the army over five years. I am now taking a refresher
course in law and plan to open my office again in May in
Helena. I am not married and have no immediate prospects.”

Wally C. Barnard—care of Bernard Color and Chemical
Corporation—333 Hudson Street, New York, New York.
“To bring you up to date, I finished my Naval career as
Lieutenant (j.g.) by grace of the Navy Alnav promotion sys-
tem. My work consisted of TAD at Davisville, Rhode Island,
where I cleared 75-80 per cent of the surplus Navy material
in the First Naval District. It was a lot of fun, and I stayed
four months over my release date at the Navy’s request.
Since the bar opened at 4:30 every afternoon and scotch was
25 cents a drink, it was easy to persuade me to stay. I finally
finished the job, and am now back at work preparing for my
old age. Tell the boys that if any of them are ever up this
way, I still keep open house and bar.”

Lieutenant Commander George Pilcher, Jr.—5209 Argall
Avenue, Norfolk 8, Virginia. “I am now out of the service and
have been practicing for a little over a year, making an honest
dollar, so to speak. Law business is good and the best of all
is that I am in Tidewater, Virginia.

E. M. Marks—‘I am kept very busy here at Goldsmith’s
Department Store. Recently | was named Controller for the
store. The title doesn’t mean as much as the work. Believe
me there are plenty figures, statistics, reports, etc., to keep

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tab on in operating a department store. I am living at 1619
Goodbar Avenue. I have two daughters, Jean, who is a little
over four years old, and Nancy, who was two in June.” If I
have overlooked any letters it is because they have been mis-
placed.

1938

Al Mangino, was discharged from the Army in February,
1946, with the rank of Captain and is now at the University
of Newark, Law School. Address: 114 Talmadge Avenue,
Bound Brook, New Jersey.

Bill Hillier was discharged from the Army as a Lieuten-
ant-Colonel in December, 1945, and started work in February
with the firm of Lord, Bissell, and Kodyk, 135 South LaSalle,
Chicago. He was married in February, 1946, to Frances Eliz-
abeth Wynne. Address: 5521 Blackstone, Chicago 37, Illi-
nols,

Ed Hiserman, discharged from the Navy in January, has
been in the Office of the Prosecuting Attorney, Kanawha
County, Charleston, West Virginia, since that time. He was
married in January, 1943, and now has a “very active” daugh-
ter 30 months old.

Sam Martin, now discharged from the Navy, is again
practicing law in Pearisburg, Virginia.

Waldo G. Miles, released from the Navy in December,
1945, with the rank of Lieutenant Commander, is again prac-
ticing law in Danville, Virginia.

William L. Wilson, Jr., discharged from the Navy in De-
cember, 1945, is again practicing his profession as an attor-
ney-at-law, Cumberland, Maryland.

Lyle E. Benvenuti has been named supervisor of sports
at the United States Veteran Hospital in Newington, Con-
necticut.

Donald J. Cushman has joined the staff of L. C. Page
and Company of Boston as assistant to the president. During
the war he served with the Seabees for more than two years
in the South Pacific. Home address: P.O. Box 74, Babson
Park, Massachusetts.

1939

Donald B. Houghton is working with the Kellett Air-
craft Corporation in North Wales, Pennsylvania, as an aero-
dynamic engineer in the research and development depart-
ment and works exclusively on helicopters. His home is still at
26 Edwards Place, Princeton, New Jersey, and he drives 80
miles a day round trip. He is married and has two sons, Bruce
and Neil.

Edgar W. Stuart is now out of the service and back in the
oil business with Tan-Kar Oil Company, Montgomery, Ala-
bama.

Ward Archer has changed his address to Broadcasting
Magazine, 870 National Press Building, Washington 4, D. C.

James G. Lamb, Jr., is now out of the service and back at
work with the advertising agency, Lamb, Smith and Keen,
Inc., 1616 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

H. L. (Dick) Fenton, Jr., after five years in khaki, came
back to the States in August after 17 months in England. He
is now back at his old desk with the American Brass Com-
pany, and hopes to get in some graduate work under the
G-I Bill. Address: 185 Buckingham Street, Waterbury, Con-
necticut.

Philip M. Grabill is now associated with the law firm of
Ball & McCarthy, Arlington County Court House, Arlington,
Virginia.

Francis Pendleton Gaines, Jr., is now assistant to the
president and dean of Birmingham Southern College, Birm-
ingham, Alabama.

Warren H. Edwards has recently become associated with
Robert J. Pleus in the general practice of law, with offices in
the First National Bank Building, Orlando, Florida,

Maurice J. Swan, Jr., says he still has his dog-tag Com-
pany which keeps him busy. It is named the K-9 Tag Com-
pany, 2240 Wesley Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

1940

William C. Church was relieved from active duty in De-
cember, 1945, and is now back in the practice of law with his
father under the firm name of Church and Church, 904 Ma-
jestic Building, San Antonio, Texas. During his Army career
he attended the School for Personnel Services at Washing-
ton and Lee.

James B. Dudley has been in the Life Insurance business
since leaving Washington and Lee. He took time out to serve
in the Army and was wounded in action with the 30th regi-
ment of the 3rd Infantry Division in France. He is married
and has one child. Address: 325-326 Law and Commerce
3uilding, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Howard T. Shepherd was released from the Army Air
Force Christmas, 1945. He was married January 5, 1945, and
is now back in Little Rock, Arkansas, as a junior partner in
the family insurance business.

O. Beverley McEwan is back in the practice of law at 209
South Orange Avenue, Orlando, Florida, after four and a
half years in the Army.

Billy V. Stone is still with the Mitchelhill Seed Company,
St. Joseph, Missouri. He is married and has two children, a
daughter Lynette Ellen, and a son Stephen Vaughan,, born
January 29, 1946. He has changed his residence address to
324 South Third, St. Joseph, Missouri.

Sydney Lewis has become associated with Harry Fried-
man in the practice of law before the Tax Court of the United
States, the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the Court of
Claims. Offices; Munsey Building, Washington 4, D. C.

Bob Dementi is now a partner in his father’s photographic
business in Richmond, Virginia, at 219 East Grace Street.

Tom Bruce is still with Leach, Calkins and Scott, Cer-
tified Public Accountants of Lynchburg, where he has been
for the past year. ‘Tom states that he is still planning to take
the C. P. A. exam.

Philip Williams, Jr., B.A. ’40, M.A. °41, of Woodstock,
Virginia, was one of three graduate students at the Univer-
sity of Virginia designated as recipients of Sidney Ernest
Bradshaw fellowship for advanced work in English in the
Department of Graduate Studies. The award is worth $750.00
for one year.

1941
William L. Schultheis was discharged from the Army in

November, 1945, and is now working for the Virginia State
Department of Taxation. He will be located in Staunton,

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Virginia, at Woodrow Terrace Apartments Number 1, North
New Street, for five or six months. Permanent address: 4520
Newport Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Lieutenant James F. Norton received his medical degree
from Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, in June, 1945,
and entered the Army June 7, 1946. Was assigned to a Gen-
eral Medical Dispensary in Yokahoma, about 40 miles from
Tokyo. Will remain in service until his tour of duty ends in
June, 1948. Address: Casual Personnel Section, Central Mail
Directory, APO Number 503, care of P.M. San Francisco,
California. Home: 471 Fillmore Avenue, East Aurora, N. Y.

Robert A. Rice was discharged from the Navy with the
rank of Lieutenant, after four years of service, and is now
back at his pre-war job with Sears Roebuck. Address: Box
266, Asbury Park, New Jersey.

Robert C. Petry, after graduation from Washington and
Lee, went to V. P. IL. and took his M.A. in Chemical Engineer-
ing; then went to work making poisonous gas. He is now
with the Tennessee Eastman Corporation, living at 1624
Carolina Avenue, Kingsport, Tennessee. He was married to
“a really cute girl” about three and a half years ago.

Robert McL. Jeter, Jr., is practicing law in Shreveport,
Louisiana, associated with the firm of Tucker, Bronson and
Martin. He is president of the North Louisiana local chapter
of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association. Through
error Bob’s name was not listed in the February Magazine
as a contributor to the 1946 Alumni Fund. We are glad to
make the correction.

The Alumni Office must have had a mental lapse regarding
the “J's” who contributed to the Class of 1941, for on check-
ing the above, we found that Robert S. Junger, also one of
our regular contributors, was omitted from the list in the
February Magazine. We are also glad to make this correc-
tion.

Harry Grove Kincaid successfully passed the Florida bar
examinations last October and is practicing law in Jackson-
ville. Home address 315 Florida Avenue, Jacksonville, Flor-
ida.

Richard A. Mehler is practicing law in the District of
Columbia and is an assistant to the General Counsel of the
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Company. Address: 1301 15th
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Marvin S. Winter is now in the real estate management
business in New York. He married Eleanor Linder and they
have a son born April 30, 1945. Address: 331 Madison Avenue,
New York, New York.

1942
E. C. Alevizatos is attending the University of Maryland
Law School. Address: 1700 East 33rd Street, Baltimore,

Maryland.

Daniel C. Lewis, Jr., says he is just another ex-lieutenant
in the inactive reserve. The LST of which he had command
was decommissioned in Tokyo Bay for use by the Japanese in
repatriation work. After that he made a brief visit to the West
Coast; flying back to Japan to assume duties as Naval Liaison
Officer at Nagasaki. He entered Harvard Business School in
February, 1947. Address: 181 Windsor Road, Waban 68,
Massachusetts.

Richard A. Brunn, after three years in the Army, during
which time he was wounded and hospitalized for three months,

was discharged November 18, 1945. He is married and is now
working in Panama for Esso Standard Oil Company, as Ad-
vertising and Sales Promotion Manager for Central America.
Address: care of Esso Standard Oil (C. A.) S. A., Apartado
3136, Panama, Republica de Panama.

Tom Cox has been out of the Army for some time and
is now working for the Bank of America and studying law
at night. Home: 3201 East 2nd Street, Apartment 1, Long
Beach, California.

William Townes Lea has been elected president of the
Danville Tobacco Association, Danville, Virginia.

1945

Charlie Stone finished his medical school work and re-
ceived his M.D. on March 15, started his internship in Phil-
adelphia General Hospital in July, and “will be wearing the
blue again come August, 1948.” Address: 506 South 4lst
Street, Philadelphia 4, Pennsylvania.

Harry F. Brown was called by the Navy for Flight train-
ing while he was a student here in 1943. Over a year ago he
was in a plane accident and since that time has been hospital-
ized. Home: 621 North Chester Road, Swarthmore, Penn-
sylvania.

Marriages

1929

William Clark Watson was married to Elizabeth Otey in
Hong Kong, China, on January 4, 1947.

1931
Herbert R. Groop was married to Rita Marc-Aurele on

_April 26, in Fitchburg, Massachusetts.

1932

Benjamin Eskridge Wilson, was married to Mary Kathleen
Donkle on May 3, 1947.
1933
Henry Vaughan Saunders was married to Anne Green
Porterfield on March 22, 1947, in Ranson, West Virginia. They
will make their home at 3520 West Place, N. W., Washing-
ton, D.C.
John F. Watlington, Jr., and Margaret Jones were mar-
ried February 22, 1947.
1936
Harold Oscar Danielson was: married to Mary Elizabeth
Ward on March 14, 1947,
1937
Joseph Lee Arnold was married to Norma Bradley on
March 26, 1947, in Lexington, Kentucky.
Randolph Van Lew Hall was married to Beverly Burton
Chambers on April 26, 1947, in New Haven, Connecticut.

1938

Charles Paul Reed was married to Patricia Walworth
Trenor January 5, 1947, Hampshire House, New York.

Charles Stuart Colley, Jr., was married to Dorothy Lang-
don Murray on February 22, 1947.

1940

Lieutenant-Commander Arthur Wilkinson Mann, Jr., was
married February 22, 1947, to Patsy Fletcher Morrell, in
Warrenton, Virginia.

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Paul Guerrant Morrison, Jr., was married to Jean Emily
Murray on February 15, 1947, in Summerville, South Carolina.

1941

William Joseph Keeler was married to Marie Christina
3urns on April 7. 1947, in Kenmore, New York.

1942

Edward Cotesworth Cuttino was married to Pretto Hal-
ford Brunson on April 20, 1947, in Sumter, South Carolina.

1943
Walter Reese Browder was married to Polly Boardman
Stanley, May 24, 1947, in New York, New York.
1944

James Calvin Kidd was married to Mary Caroline Gaines
on March 27, 1947, in Due West, South Carolina.

Robert Ewing was married to Elizabeth Elsie Smith, May
24, 1947, in New Haven, Connecticut.

1945

Richard Evelyn Byrd was married to Helen Bradshaw on
March 29, 1947, in Washington, D. C.

1946

George Brown Petty, Jr., was married to Evelyn Pauline
Allen December 26, 1946, in the chapel of the Glenview Naval
Air Station.

Samuel Hobart Lockett, Jr., was married to Margaret
Mayer on March 16, 1947, in Mountain View, New Jersey.

Births

1935

Mr. and Mrs. William Schuhle, Jr., are the parents of a
son, William Schuhle, Jr., born February 3, 1947, in Adrian,

Michigan.
1937

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence White Wilson, Jr., announce the
birth of a daughter, Mary Draper, January 15, 1947.
1939
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Davis announce the birth, January
23, 1947, of a baby daughter, Ruth Allison.
1940

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Hobson have a daughter, Ann
Peyton Hobson, born March 29, 1947

Mr. and Mrs. Dabney W. Watts announce the birth of a
daughter, Carolyn Page, February 26, 1947.
1941
Mr. and Mrs. Latham L. Thigpen, Jr., are the parents of
a daughter, Margaret Smith Thigpen, born March 27, 1947.
1943
Mr. and Mrs. M. Neely Young have a second son, Church-
ill Buck, born April 1, 1947, in Danville, Virginia.
1945
Dr. and Mrs. Charles H. Stone announce the birth of a
son, Charles Henry Stone, IV, born March 14, 1947.
1946

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence F. Johnson, Jr., are the parents of
a son, Freeman Lee, born February 24, 1947.

In Memoriam

1877

Jefferson Alexis Hendley, ’95, one of Washington and Lee’s
oldest alumni, died March 21, 1947, in Dade City, Florida. He
was the last surviving member of the convention which
drafted Florida’s present constitution in 1885. Until he suf-
fered a paralytic stroke the day before his death, he was able
to make daily trips to town and took a keen interest in com-
munity and state affairs. He served as Pasco County’s rep-
resentative to the 1945 legislature and was believed to be the
oldest man ever to sit in the Florida legislature. Born in
Farmington, Kentucky, the son of a surgeon in the Confed-
erate Army, he worked his way through several schools and
was graduated from Washington and Lee with the LL.B.
degree in 1877. Mr. Handley drove a mule team from Texas
to what is now Pasco County, Florida, in 1882. He was elected
surveyor of Hernando County the following year, and later
senator and surveyed Dade City when it was established as
the county seat of Pasco and helped in its development. He
wrote a comprehensive history of Pasco County, Florida.

1878
Dr. Robert F. Campbell died April 3, 1947, in Asheville,
North Carolina.
1888
Edwin W. Kaminski of Georgetown, South Carolina, died
April 6, 1947.
1899
George Wallace Muir died April 19, 1947. His home was
in Lexington, Kentucky.
1903
Aldine Clifford Burkholder died at his home in San Mar-
cos, Texas on December 13, 1946.

Colonel James Warren Bagley of Fayetteville, Tennessee,
died February 19, 1947.

George Couper Gibbs died September 17, 1946, at his home
in Jacksonville, Florida.
1904
Neill T. Masterson, Sr., died at his ranch home near Bra-
zoria, Texas on March 27, 1947.

1910
Henry J. Rectenwald died April 8, 1947, in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.
1914
James Franklin Clemmons died March 26, 1947, in Pine
Bluff, Arkansas.
1921
Robert Walker Cole died at his home in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, February 13, 1947, after a brief illness.

1922
Wylie W. Taylor died February 26, 1947, at his home in

Huntington, West Virginia, after a brief illness.

1924
Joe Tipton Gwaltney, A.B. ’24, LL.B. ’28, died of a heart
attack on February 11, 1947. His home was in Tiptonville,
Tennessee.
1926
Richard Hayes Thatcher died March 28, 1947, in the
Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Walter Clark Schenck of 615 West Princess Anne Road,
Norfolk, Virginia, died March 29, 1947.

1932
H. Breckenridge Heaps, Class Agent for 1932-Law, died
suddenly on May 11, 1947, at his home in Bel Air, Maryland.

 

 

 

 

 

Pictures

For HOME or OFFICE
@

%2 After considerable delay, we are delighted to an-
nounce that pictures in full color showing the lawn and
buildings of front campus are now available and may
be ordered from the alumni office in either of two sizes—
20 x 15 and 35 x 25 inches... Suitable for home or
office, these pictures are believed to comprise the most
satisfactory art work ever created to capture the familiar
loveliness of the Washington and Lee campus... Price:
Large size $2.50...small size $1.

 

IMPORTANT

Recently the Alumni Office mailed a questionnaire to all alumni whose
addresses are on our files. This information is to be used in an Alumni Direc-
tory planned in connection with the Bicentennial celebration in 1949. To
date only about one-third of these questionnaires has been returned. You
can render a real service by returning the questionnaire immediately. If it
has been misplaced, drop us a card and we will send you another one by re-
turn mail.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gt

-

+ Whee ~~

 

 

