 

 

 

 

 

 

—

alachian
ot. Pp. Collins, Marion, Va.

Arkansas
James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia bd
Alex M. Hitz, C. and 8. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland
J. Carl Fisher
Birmingham, Alabama
John F.. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky
Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
Ruge DeVan
Chattanooga, Tennessee
C ; Avery
hicago, Illinois
C hep Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio
Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina
John L. Crist, P. O:- Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio
Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley
Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
Ww. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan
Kdward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’l Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky
Oldham Clark, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee
Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas
John Stemmons, Republic Bank Bldg.
Parkersburg, West Virginia
EK. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont
Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
George Haw
Roanoke, Virginia
George Ould, 600 Grandin Road
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
“Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State
George W. Keller, Simms-Keller Bldg.
pper-Potomac
L, Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.
Brian Bell, Star Building

ee

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Eyntered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XVI JULY, 1941 Nos
He On Harry:K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor... GEORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

®

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Per esdewie 8 suas Joun C. Morrison, 1925
SCORBEORY os oe Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
EPPO ere ee a Dr. REw Waits, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carro_it Mean, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
R. G. Wuirtte, 1924

RocER BEAR, 1914

 

 

Contents for July, 1941

PAGE
One Thing Constant (The President's tage) (ou ea. 3
he One Hundred: Ninety-Socond Figs... +
iii Tronorédsat Finale ha oe ae ee 7
Gains: (Gomimeht ea ee ee ie ea as a o
Alumni Masazine Printed on New (ress. ord. ee 10
Hop gary. Ara yAl DMMOte oon po eee eo 11
manual Report Of the Secretary yk a Le 13
Notes: on General Nesting of Atumnt uno a 15
Alugu Pumd-as of daly 22) 194 eee i or es 16
Wagemeton and ee and Défense ee ea 7
lees ee A ee 19
Phi ewig ee ee a 27
Oscar; -Caperton:. Tufiman, 18/62194se. i koe ha oe 28

 

Photograph of President Gaines from the 1941 Calyx

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

One Thing Constant

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

BLEAK consideration that enters disturbingly into

A

to W

the minds of most thoughtful men is speculation as
hat kind of a world this will be when the troubles of
our present day are over. We foresee dimly the economic
dislocations within the nations, the difficulty of economic
adjustment between the nations, the burden of debt
overwhelming all of the nations, the conflict of honest
‘deals and selfish motive in struggle to write a charter for
the new day—these things and many others add up to a

potential condition which is not pleasant to contemplate.
HF ee

But of one thing we may be reasonably sure. What-
ever kind of world emerges, education and the educated
man will have value, perhaps a greater value than in a

social order less distraught.
ee

From this statement which has a peculiar validity
even if it may seem trite, we may draw two suggestions

of guidance. Car

One is that capable young people, however uncertain
of the immediate program of their lives, should be stead-
fastly encouraged to persist to the fullest training pos-

sible. lee ae

I ventured to say to the graduating class of this year
that one of the ultimate disasters of war is in the broken
plans of competent youth, the abandonment of their pur-
poses, the wreckage of their dreams. It is a high pos-
sibility of spiritual salvage given to us who deal with
youth that we should seek to prevent this wastage of

human promise. ee

The other suggestion which comes as a corollary, per-

haps even as a mere inference, merits careful considera-

lion. We may state it simply as an affirmation that if

democracy is to survive, the free and untrammeled inst1-
tutions must be sustained along with the expansion of

state controlled education.

eSB

It is unnecessary to elaborate here the thesis that the
heart of democracy is its utter freedom of thought. Per-
haps we may, however, remind ourselves that the vaunted
liberties of our democratic order, freedom of the press,
freedom of speech, even freedom of worship, have mean-
ing only as they spring out of that underlying freedom
which is the right of inquiry, the freedom to know the

truth. ng ee

It is equally unnecessary to enlarge upon the thesis
that in the past the institutions of private control have
made immense contributions to the public life of America.
A roll call of the Washington and Lee men who have be-.
come leaders of thought and action upon some scene of
public concern would be conclusive evidence. A similar
case might be established for hosts of the older and better

supported private colleges and universities.
fe

What interests me particularly is that in this day
when we re-think the philosophy of the democratic sys-
tem, we should see clearly that the dual system of educa-
tion, the public and the private, acts not merely as a sort
of check and balance upon each other, but as a stimulant
to the best effort of each other and as a safeguard upon
any extremism that might damage one or the other of

these systems. cae

For the sake of the individual, and for the sake of the
better social order for which we pray, we must dedicate
ourselves anew to the place of education in our democ-

racy, and to the kind of educations which we purpose to

eo et mG

President

cherish.

 

Scene of first outdoor Commencement exercises

Dr. Gaines awards diplomas, inside Lee Chapel] ;

The One Hundred Ninety-Second Finals

LtrHouGcH the Alumni Office will never join that
Bbroncs of social annoyances who perpetrate ques-
tionnaires, we should be really interested to know what
the general reaction of the alumni body was to the chiet
novelty of the 192nd Washington and Lee Finals—the
outdoor commencement.

So far as we could observe informally, the reaction
was favorable. For one thing, the new arrangement en-
abled everbody (at least everyone who wanted to) to
see and hear the larger part of the exercises. In the old
days, only those who could squeeze into the narrow con-
fines of the chapel had this privilege; in 1940, everyone
who wished could hear the proceedings. In 1941, every-
thing that could be was literally out in the open.

Naturally, we all have to admit that every bit of this
happened only through sufferance of the weather, which
was perfect—not even hot in fact. But still, the weather
is usually fair for commencement day, a remark which
calls for knocking on wood.

Traditionalists might object that no one should gradu-
ate from this institution except from Lee Chapel, but as
a matter of fact, this year’s class did graduate from Lee
Chapel. The speech-making was outside, but the con-
ferring of degrees and awards was within.

Those who consider it a hardship to arise early the
morning after a Senior-Alumni Ball might object to hav-
ing the exercises held two hours earlier than of old, but
they will reflect, we are sure, upon how lovely Nature 1s
at that time of day: birds singing, alumni groaning, the
sun coming up over the hills, and the devotee of the dance

sinking back over his pillow. But as for a serious reasot
it had to be considered that there was a simple choice @ of
starting early while there was shade, or of frying crisph
in the noonday sun.

Well, the Alumni Office is arguing for or agains
nothing. We can only assert that from the colonnade th
view over the lawn to the crowd assembled in the shade

before Lee Chapel was a beautiful 1f not an inspiring one

To begin at the beginning now—planning to creé
up on the commencement ceremonies later on—Fina
week began as usual with the Baccalaureate Sermon, thi
year preached on Sunday, June 1. The speaker was
Frank S$. Hickman, Dean of the Chapel and member of
the Faculty of Theology at Duke University. Dr. Hick
man pointed out to the seniors the supreme need 0
spirituality in this time of national peril.

Then there was the usual interim taken up by exailt
inations, before the social activities of Finals began with
the Interfraternity Ball on Wednesday.

There is not much you could be told about the variow
dances, because in spirit they did not differ from i
ones at your own Commencement; but some superfiei
differences might be listed. Jimmy Dorsey and his orches
tra entertained for the first part of the festivities, i!
cluding the Interfraternity Ball, the Senior-Alumni Bal
and a Lawn Concert on Thursday afternoon. Of cours
this Lawn Concert turned out to be a non-dancing te
dance in the gymnasium when the dance committee mis
read the weather signs and thought it was going to rail
and the result was a little disappointing; but from th

Due

 

ultz, Bob Curtis,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

——

commentators observation of the packed gym floor, the
children were having a very good time all the same.

The fanciful locale of this year’s dance had been
moved from the Hawaiian paradise of last spring back
home, and had reverted to the Old South: plantation
house, picturesque darkies, mint juleps and so forth as
vou can see from the accompanying illustration.
~ Your correspondent, whose motto is “Early to bed;
late to rise” did not witness the figure this year, but the
AJumini Secretary, who has seen a few before, pronounc-
ad it one of the best. The final formation brought the
participants upon a platform in such a way that they re-
sembled a colonial bouquet in red and white.

The Senior figure was led by Fred Farrar, president
of the senior academic class with Miss Henrietta Red-
wine of Randolph-Macon and Fayetteville, and the
alumni figure by Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, 1915, with
Mrs. S. Mercer Graham. Finals President Cameron Dean
with Miss Barbara Hood of Leland, Mississippi, were
leaders at the Final Ball itself.

The music on the last night was furnished by Tommy
Reynolds and his orchestra, who specialize in “music of
today in the style of tomorrow” which metaphysic we
must admit to be over our head.

If you had your radio tuned to the right place on
Thursday night at 12:30, you heard some of the music of
that evening’s ball as well as an address by President
Gaines.

So finally at six o’clock the Final Ball came to an end,
at which moment it occurred to this devotee of the Vir-
ginia Reel and the Boston Fancy (from his comfortable
bed) that Lexington was probably the only small town
in the United States where one could appear at that hour
on the main street in full evening dress without exciting
comment.

To return to the rest of the program, the University
Board and the Alumni Council met on Thursday morn-
ing, and the main results are recorded elsewhere in this

oup of alumni of the Class of 1916 get together: Echol Marshall, Ted
Selden McNeer, Lewis Twyman, and Josh Buckley

issue. The boat races scheduled for the afternoon had to
be called off on account of the non-appearance of the
visiting team. The Alumni Smoker, however, was held
as scheduled, and your correspondent can only report
that he found it a pleasure in every way, especially in the
meeting of old friends and former students. At nine that
evening, the president’s hospitable doors were again open
to all, who were, as always, most cordially received.

As to the events of Friday, the Alumni Luncheon was
again held on the campus in front of the Student Union,
as 1s fully shown in the accompanying pictures. The gen-
eral picture of the scene, we regret to say, does not show
exactly what it looked like because, for some reason,
everyone was crowded over on the other side; and, as Cy
remarked, “Wouldn't you know that the view we took
irom that side would be the only shot that didn’t come
out !”

This denizen of the Alumni Office felt particularly
proud to see the annual meeting of the Almuni Associa-
tion held this year in the comparatively palatial reference
room of the new library, which building was thoroughly
inspected, and, we trust, appreciated.

The first speech at the exercises was by Alvin T.

‘Fleishman of Anderson, South Carolina, class valedic-

torian of 1941, who voiced a note of confidence and
comparative optimism to 183 classmates who are going
out into the world “not unaware of the future” as Fleish-
man expressed it, quoting, of course, from Washington
and [ee’s motto, “Non incautus futuri.” Dr. Gaines sec-
onded the motion as it were, in advising the young men
to fear cynicism and to avoid the ‘cowardice of moral
fedr.

After these addresses the participants in the ceremony
moved inside the chapel where awards were made as
follows:

One hundred and seventy-nine academic and profes-
sional degrees were awarded at this time, including five

Master of Arts, 31 Bachelor of Law, 76 Bachelor of Arts,

Dr. Dick Fowlkes, Richmond, retiring president of the Alumni Associa)
tion, leads Alumni figure with Mrs. Mercer Graham, of Lexington

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

six Bachelor of Science, 53 Bachelor of Science in Com-
merce, one certificate in commerce, and seven certificates
in journalism.

Five honorary degrees were awarded as follows:

James I. Bear, alumnus of Washington and Lee and
_ professor of the New Testament at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and Theodore H.
Evans, alumnus, and rector of St. Paul’s church in Cleve-
land, Ohio, were awarded the degree of Doctor of Di-
vinity.

Doctor of Science degrees were awarded to William
Allan, M. D., alumnus from Charlotte, North Carolina,
and J. B. Fishburn, chairman of the board of directors
of the First National Exchange Bank of Roanoke. Dr.
Allan has won national recognition for certain studies in
the field of medicine, while Mr. Fishburn is a dis-
tinguished business man and donor of several parks to
Roanoke and the state of Virginia.

Charles James Faulkner, Jr., Washington and Lee
alumnus and general counsel for Armour & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, was presented with the degree of Doctor of Laws.

Sixteen endowed scholarships, 16 departmental schol-
arships, and 12 prizes were awarded as follows:

 

Bill Allan,
WN... who received an honorary degree at
Commencement exercises

1902, distinguished physician of Charlottes

[6]

   
      
    

Edward Kugene Hunter, of Wilmington, North Cagg
lina, was selected for the Howard Houston fellowship
which brings $420 and requires teaching of two hours D
classes.

Latham L. Thigpen, Jr., of Richimone Virginia, wa
awarded the Mapleson scholarship of $300. :

The Vincent I, Bradford scholarship of $300 Was
given to Thomas C. Wilson, Jr., of Columbus, Ohio, 7

John S. Deer, Jr., of Frederick, Maryland, won the
Luther Seevers Birely scholarship of $300. '

The Franklin society scholarship of $300 was awardey
to Edward Calohill Burks of Lexington, Virginia, for th
second consecutive year. 1

Norman Francis Wyatt of Petersburg, Virginia, re
ceived the James McDowell scholarship of $300. |

The $180 James D. Davidson memorial fund scholar
ship went to Thomas O. Fleming of Yorktown, Virginia

The Robert Alexander scholarship of $200 wat
awarded to William Henry Armstrong of Christchureh
Virginia. 7

Paul Baker, Jr., of Ashland, Kentucky, was xiven th
$200 George A. Baxter scholarship.

Carlyle Westbrook Barritt of West Pittston, Penm
sylvania, received the Henry Ruffner scholarship of $200

The $190 James J. White scholarship went to Wil
liam Benjamin Hopkins of Rockymount, Virginia.

Frederick William Bauer of Kent, Connecticut, 4
ceived the $100 Mary Louisa Reid White schol it
chemistry.

The Taylor junior mathematics scholarship of $100
was awarded to Robert Edmund Lee of Covington
Kentucky.

Kenneth S. Clendaniel of Milford, Delaware, ré
ceived the John H. Hamilton scholarship in Greek of
$100. ;
The Young philosophy scholarship of $100 went i
Frederick Milton Allen of Kenosha, Wisconsin. q

The Interfraternity council award went to Howard
Wesley Dobbins and Robert Morris Lawrence. ;

The 16 departmental scholarships of $100 each were
awarded as follows:

Iconomics: Jay Armand Silverstein of Chattanooga
‘Tennessee. {

Commerce: George Elliott Kearns, Jr., of Lewistow !
Pennsylvania. j

Biology: Phillip Abney Wilhite, Jr.,
Virginia.

Physics: Magill Kimbrough of Spokane, Washingtal

Physical Mducation: Samuel John Graham, Jr., @
Far Rockaway, New York.

Political Science: Lawrence Werner Galloway ol
‘Towson, Maryland. |

of Richa

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—— ls

History: Morrison Ray Nelson of Louisville, Ken-
tucky:
Education and Psychology: John George Martire of
pelham, New York.

Latin: John Hite Mast, Jr., of Rockbridge Baths,
Virginia.

Geology :
Parks, New jersey.

Journalism : Charles Thomas Garten of Charleston,
West Virginia.

Spanish : Buford Stuart Stephenson of Richmond,

Nelson Clarence Steenland of Palisades

Virginia. :
French: Richard Rockwell of Hartford, Connecticut.

English: Edwin Albert Zelnicker, Jr., of Mobile,
Alabama.

Accounting : George Edward McKay of Battle Creek,
Michigan.

German: James Edwin Foard of Beckley, West
Virginia.

The Sigma Delta Chi scholarship award went to
Robert Edward Steele, III, of Richmond, Virginia.

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion was pre-
sented to Allen Thomas Snyder, this year’s president of
the student body and Phi Kappa Psi from Glenside,
Pennsylvania.

The Robinson awards in English literature, history,
and social sciences went to Alvin Theodore Fleishman of
Anderson, South Carolina, Edward Eugene Hunter of
Wilmington, North Carolina, Benton McMillin Wake-
field, Jr., of Jackson, Mississipp1.

     

J. B. Fishburn, of Roanoke, recipient of an honorary de-
gree, chats with Wm. L. Mapel, former professor,
and Earl Mattingly, treasurer

The George A. Mahan prizes for creative writing
went to Freshmen Wallace Edward Clayton of Cranbury,
New Jersey; Albert Wheelwright Cobb of Winetka, IIl-
inois; John Edgar Hare of Carysbrook, Virginia, and
Harrison Burton Kinney of Houlton, Maine; Sopho-
more—Phillip Lindsley Small, Jr., of Cleveland, Ohio.

Alumni Honored at Finals

A’ the Washington and Lee Finals of 1941, four men
were particularly honored, all, as it happened, alumni.
Two of the honors went necessarily to this group; the
other two, not necessarily.

First, there was a place to be filled on the Alumni
Board of ‘Trustees. Under ordinary circumstances, two
men would have been elected to this body, but on ac-
count of the death last year of James Robert Neal, 1915,
four new members were elected instead of three, leaving
a place for only one this spring. To this office, at the
recommendation of the nominating committee, was un-
animously elected Roger Jones Bear, 1914.

The Thomas Nelson Page award was the second
honor, and it was given this year to Ki Williams, 1915, of
Waynesboro, Virginia.

The other two—perhaps the most important of all

offices at Washington and [,ee—were the places left va-
cant on the Board of ‘Trustees by the death of Mr. Oscar
C. Huffman, 1898, this spring, and the resignation of Mr.
Harrington Waddell, 1893, last year. These vacancies
were filled by Joseph Taliaferro Lykes, 1909, and Clar-
ence Renshaw Avery, 1914. It should be of especial in-
terest to all alumni to note that these two men were of-
ficially recommended by the Alumni Board of Trustees
and on that recommendation elected by the University
Board.

Brief mention of each of the four honored follows :

Roger Bear of Cincinnati is now Chief Kngineer for
the Kroger Grocery and Baking Company.

After graduation from Washington and Lee, where

he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and captain

of the basketball team, Mr. Bear became a Ist Lieutenant

Le

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

in the United States Army and served
fifteen months overseas.

Before joining the Kroger Company
he was Assistant Engineer on Highways
and Bridges for the city of Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, then an important engineer on the
Union Station in Cincinnati.

Ki Willams, since graduation, has
been with the E. I. du Pont de Nemours
Company in various capacities, and 1s now
Manufacturing Superintendent at their
plant in Waynesboro, Virginia. He was
for three years a member of the Alumni
Board of Trustees.

Citation read by Dr. Gaines in award-
ing the medal to Mr. Williams, follows:

“For integrity of character, for pleasantness of social
manner, for sweetness of spirit, for generosity in carry-
ing the burdens of others—for all personal attributes of
the best type of Washington and Lee man; for intelli-
gence in translating the high ideals of this University into
the complex practical procedures of the business and po-
litical world; for kindness to the younger brothers of the
fellowship of alumni; for devotion, discerning and self-
sacrificing devotion to every need of Alma Mater—K1
Williams has been awarded the Thomas Nelson Page
award.”

Joe Lykes, remembered by brothers in Phi Delta
Theta and classmates as manager of the 1908 football
team and a man generally prominent in campus activities,
is vice-president of the Lykes Bro-
thers Steamship Company.

 

 

Roger Jones Bear, 1914, member
of the Alumni Board of Trustees

 

Joseph Taliaferro Lykes, 1909,
member of Board of Trustees

 

Clarence Renshaw Avery,
member of the Board of Trustees

[8 |

  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
   

Two years president of the Washing
ton and Lee Alumni Association (193g
1940), Mr. Lykes has always been actiy
and prominent in alumni work, both 4
New York where he now lives at Pelhay
and in the general association. His Son
Joe Jr., graduated from Washington an
Lee this spring.

Clarence Avery is at present presidep
of his own company, the Chattanoog,
Glass Company, Chattanooga, Tennesse,

Like Mr. Lykes, he has been a faith
ful worker in alumni matters and is we
known not only to his classmates but {
the alumni body in general. He is a pagi
president of the Chattanooga Alumni,”

His son, Lupton, was in Washington and Lee ung
last spring when he joined the army as 2nd Lieutenant

18lst Field Artillery

 

K. THomas Everncam, 1933, has been named As.
sistant United States District Attorney for the distriel
of Maryland, with offices in Baltimore. A member of th
Maryland and District of Columbia Bar Associationg :
Mr. Everngam, who is 29, is married and has two echt F
dren. He graduated from Washington and Lee Univer
sity in 1933 and studied law at the Washington College
of Law and the Catholic University Law School. Prior

to his appointment he was an attorney for the Recor

struction Finance Corp. He live
at 1607 Chase Ave., Bethesda, M

   

Ki Williams, 1915, winner of the
Thomas Nelson Page award, 194!

1914, new

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Campus Comment

By KENNETH VAN DE WATER

rnaLs 1941! And how did the students like the dance
E ct? Of course the seniors thought that Cameron
Dean’s party could not possibly have been more fun or
more appropriate and the undergraduates have voiced
their ayes to these
sentiments. The
music, the setting
and the Final Ball
figure made Fin-
als 1941 the peak
of perfection and
q suiting climax
to the college days
of the 180 mem-
bers of the gradu-
ating class.

The scheme of
conducting the
eraduation exer-
cises on the front
campus with the
speaker's rostrum
backgrounded by
mee Chapel met
with the hearty
approval of the
graduates and
those attending the Commencement. Again credit for
this must be given to Finals President Dean who sub-
mitted the idea to the seniors attending the Alumni-
Senior banquet in May and presented a petition signed
by the seniors to the Board of ‘Trustees.

At the Alumni-Banquet, President Gaines stated in
his address that alumni can help the University in three
ways: By keeping the University informed of graduate’s
activities, by helping the University discover the “right”’
kind of boys to come to the University to replace the
graduates, by participating in the alumni class agent
plan. Seniors of this year’s class leave behind many
Pleasant memories of the four years that they have spent
” W ashington and [ee gentlemen, and with these rem-
Miscences freshly imbedded in their minds, they can cer-
tainly aid the University and at the same time assist
themselves by carrying out President Gaines’ three sug-
£estions.

Already members of this year’s class are beginning to

 

Cy Young congratulates a new group of Alumni

be heard from. 'wenty some members of the W-L
squadron of “flying cadets’ have begun their training.
The squadron reported to Hick’s Field in Fort Worth,
Texas, a few weeks ago to start on their way toward
earning wings.
Valedictorian
Al Fleishman’s re-
marks asking the

seniors not to
throw aside the
plans made for
future life in view
of the present
emergency, but
carry them and
then fulfill them
in. the future

seem to be what
many members of
the class will have
to do as a number
have been “called
to the army.” Still
others have taken
up the commis-
sions that they
earned during the
previous summers while they were attending Washing-
ton and Lee.

Thus ends ‘comments from the campus” for this
year, but the alumni secretary promises that there will
be a new batch of items about what the students are do-
ing “‘on the hill” in the fall issue of the Alumni Magazine.

 

 

This Issue’s Covers

Front—1941 Final Ball figure, led by Cameron Dean
with Miss Barbara Hood of Leland, Mississippi.

Inside Front—TYop: The Class of 1921 returns for
its 20th Reunion. Bottom: A few representatives from
New York City.

Inside Back—Top: Alumni and their families gather
for luncheon. Bottom: Norman Fitzhugh, Senior and
Junior, chat with the Honorable Homer A. “Rocky” Holt.

Back—A group of students and their dates listen to
a hot trumpet.

 

 

be

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni Magazine Printed on New Pres

By C. Harotp Lauck

Superintendent, Journalism Laboratory Press

AVE you noticed that this issue of The Alumni Mag-
H gine is smaller than previous issues? For sixteen
years the Magazine has been 9x12 inches in page size and
this is the first issue printed in the new size of 85¢xl1™%
inches. Why? Be-
cause we have in-
stalledia new
press, the size of
which has made
it necessary for us
to reduce the size
of the page in
order to print the
same number of
pages at a time as
we have been do-
ing in the past.

The installation
of the new press
event tO
have

is an
which we
been looking for-
ward «Lot. ‘years
and the Journal-
ism Laboratory
Press is in a hap-
py mood. It is an
occasion for cele-
bration and dedication and we are doing just that by
printing this July, 1941, issue of The Alumni Magazine
as the first major publication run entirely on the new
machine.

This is really the first piece of major equipment
which the Press has purchased which is not second-hand.
For instance, the old press which was replaced by the
new machine was forty-one years old and was practically
worn out when installed here about eleven years ago. It
had long been known that eventually we would have to
improve our facilities for producing the quality of work
the shop is called upon to handle and which we have con-
sidered the kind of printing a university printing depart-
ment should issue.

The new press is a Kelly No. 2 with all the modern 1m-
provements, including automatic feeding and high speed
production. It is rigid in construction and is a precision

| 10 |

 

The Journalism Laboratory Press from a photograph taken a few years ago

  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  

machine in all respects. It is complicated, but it is our hope
that we will be able to produce on it better printing, mong
economically, than was possible previously. ,

Those of the alumni who have visited our shop haye
some idea as to
the limited amount
of equipment we
have had fon
handling the print.
ing of the uni-
versity and cam-
pus organizations,
and, [I am = sur
be glad to

that eve

will
know

ress n
made in improy-
ing our facilities,

To those of the
alumni who are
not familiar with
the Laboratory
Press, it might be
well to state that
it is an adjunet of
the Departmen of
Journalism and
here the journalism students learn something of the
Dracheny phases of that subject through the course en-
titled “Mechanics of Journalism.” The shop employs
four workmen and prints The Alumni Magazine, The
Southern Collegian, The Ring-tum Phi, the Law Re
view, and all the miscellaneous items, booklets, bulletins
etc., used by the university departments, campus organs
zations, and fraternities.

In addition, the Press itself has instituted the pub:
lishing of some noteworthy booklets and scholarly articles :
somewhat in the nature of private press activities. Sud
items are designed as contributions to progress in pub:
lishing, not only from the standpoint of printing crafts
manship, but also for the useful professional informatiot
they circuate among newspaper publishers and othefts
Some of these have been distributed as Keepsakes ant

(Continued on page 11) |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Bob Gary, Natural Athlete

x some sports it is not unusual for an outstanding player
t be trained after he comes to college. We remember
well, for instance, an all-state tackle (now a movie star )
who had actually never seen a game of football until his
freshman year, we recall a number of successful track
men who had never put on a track
shoe until after matriculation; but we
cannot recall ever before having heard
of a baseball player who had not
learned the sport practically from the
cradle. It is for this reason that, like
everyone else, we look on the case of
Robert William Gary; Jr., 1941, as
phenomenal, because Bob, having never
played a single game of baseball before
he entered Washington and Lee, pro-
ceeded, in four years’ time, to make
himself the star of the team and one
with excellent prospects of becoming
a star in the big leagues.

How much of his success is due
to natural ability and how much to the
genius of Captain Dick for training ball players, we can-
not say, but that Bob Gary is a natural athlete no one
could deny. Part of his record in the Calyx reads: “Foot-
me 1.2, 3, 4,. Basketball; 1,2 3,43, Baseball,.1, 2, 3, 4;
Captain 4’—and of course he didn’t have time for, say,
track or wrestling in the midst of all that. It might be
_added, though, that he did find time for Sigma Chi, ODK,
“13” Club, Cotillion Club, Monogram Club, and to be
secretary-treasurer of the Athletic Council, all of which
adds up to a pretty well rounded college career.

Those who have been following the records will re-
member that Washington and Lee’s baseball perform-
ances for several years have been disappointing, ranging
irom a season with no victories to some with altogether
too few. Consequently, it brought joy to a good many
hearts when this year, after a rather shaky start, our
team went on to capture the championship of the state
for the first time in a long while. Naturally, this success
Was the achievement of the whole team and of the coach,
but the work of the captain was admittedly outstanding.
Gary hit (according to one sports writer) for “only .318”
Which we should call a strange use of the word “‘only;”
but at any rate he was unmatched in the infield where he
played alternately at third base and shortstop.

 

Robert William Gary, 1941

At present, this twenty-year-old alumnus from Beau-
mont, ‘Texas, is under contract to the Washington Sen-
ators and is holding down a position as shortstop for their
Mayodan, North Carolina, farm in the bi-state league. It
had been expected that he would be sent rather to Wash-
ington’s Piedmont League farm at
Charlotte, but it was finally decided to
give him preliminary experience in
Class D ball. It is interesting to note
that his manager at Mayodan will be
Taylor Sanford, his boss last summer
when he played semi-pro ball for New-
port News.

Being a dub at every sport we have
ever tried, we particularly envy the
versatility of those who just naturally
play them all well. Bob is certainly one
of those, for without him both the
football and basketball teams would
have been seriously weakened during
the four years of his stay here. And
finally, he is going to cap the climax
next winter by teaching and also coaching all sports at
Fishburne Military Academy in Waynesboro.

So, to conclude our sports reviews for the year, we
might observe that if only because of Bob Gary and a
lot of others like him, maybe Washington and Lee didn’t
have such a bad year in athletics after all.

 

New Arrival

Joun MerepitH GraHAM, Jr., 1935, and Mrs. Gra-
ham announced the birth of a son, John Meredith Gra-
ham, II, on May 3lst.

 

Magazine Printed on New Press
(Continued from page 10)

others have been sold. Many are already out of print and
even though some of these itmes may have attained value
to collectors, the greatest worth of these graphic arts
activities has been to gain a widespread recognition for
the University through this indirect form of bringing its
name to the attention of an increasing number of people.

[ 11 |

 

Seventeen sons of Alumni received their degrees in June. Fathers and sons pictured above 7
with James, Jr.; (2) Sam, Jr., with Dr. Sam Pruitt, 711; (3) John Herndon, ’11, with Dick; Frank Bedinger, ’11, with Fram’
Jr.; (4) Herbert, Jr., with Herbert Woodward, 713; (5) Joe, Jr., with Joe Lykes, ’09.

are: (1) Governor Price,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Annual Report of the Secretary

x the occasion of our annual meeting last year, the
O report of your secretary covered a period of ten
vears and was necessarily a long one. | will therefore try
to be brief in giving you the activities and progress of the
Association for the past year.

With our alumni distributed as they are to the four
corners of the globe, we are confronted with a very
serious problem of organization. We have concentrated
more this year than ever before on our local chapters or
clubs, and unquestionably they have been most active in
lending assistance to the University. Especially is this
true in their work of placing us in touch with prospective
students. A survey of this year’s Freshman class showed
that over one-third of 1ts members became interested in
Washington and Lee through alumni and local chapters.
There have been forty alumni meetings of these chapters
in sixteen states, and at practically all of them there has
been a representative of the
University present to ad-
dress the meeting.

At our meeting last June
you accepted the report of
a committee whereby your
Association was to operate
under an entirely new plan.
sriefly, the plan was that the
Alumni Office be under the
direction of
the University, with the ad-

administrative

vice and counsel of your
alumni officials, and further,
that the University assume
the expense of said office.
After being in effect a year,
lam so happy to report to
you that the plan has worked
most successfully, and I am
sure the Alumni Office has
functioned much more ef-
lectively by reason of it.
Each year I tell you of
the increased interest in the
Alumni Fund, and the out-
‘Standing work done by our
“lass agents, and this year
Will not be an exception. Un-

   

Dick Hynson, 08, of Washington, D. C.; his son Frank re-
ceived his degree with the Class of 1941

doubtedly, this particular phase of alumni work is show-
ing a healthy and steady growth, and I want to take this
opportunity to thank publicly the class agents for the un-
selfish service they have rendered.

On this date last year, I stated that the totals of the
Fund were the largest ever reported to an alumni meeting
in the eight years of its operation. The report before you
exceeds that report both in the number contributing and
the amount contributed, and this in spite of the fact that
we were over two weeks late in getting started. Our totals
for last year were 942 contributors for $7,465.15. These
figures were from January 1, 1940, to March 1, 1941. Of
the total amount received, $3,631.27 was turned over to
the University. Under the new plan of operation, the
University has received all money collected from the
present year’s Alumni Fund, and I have no doubt that
by March Ist of next year we shall have exceeded both
in the number of contribu-
tors and amount contributed,
any year in the past.

I believe the biggest step
forward made by the As-
sociation, since the inception
of the Class Agent Plan, was
made this year in starting its
program of Student-Alumni
relations—or we might call
it “cultivating the under-
graduate.” Unquestionably,
an alumni president, secre-
tary, or any other alumni of-
ficer, cannot generate loyalty
when student days are over:
all we can do is to coordinate
the spirit that comes to men
through four years of col-
lege life. The obvious objec-
tive of a college or Univer-
sity is to prepare students for
their life’s work; the objec-
tive of this program is to pre-
pare students for their life as
alumni. We plan to lay our
whole emphasis in campus life
on the fact that the “student
is the thing.” The school is

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

run, not for the Board of Trustees, not
for the faculty, but for the students. It
we can enlarge on this program, as we
hope to, it will be no surprise to the
boy, when he becomes an alumnus, to
find the University genuinely interested
before position and wealth have come
to him, and he will not be skeptical of
the advances of the Alumni Secretary
or other college representatives. With
respect to projects sponsored, I might
say that the Senior Banquet given this
year by the Alumni Association was
most successful, and | can assure you
the Class of 1941 has been fully en-
lightened on the work and objectives
of the Association. The Broadcast of
Fancy Dress Ball was made _ possible
by the alumni, and we not only financed
but cooperated with the Glee Club in
publishing the new Washington and Lee song-book. We
have worked with our students in the organization of a
lightweight, or 150-pound football team, which will be a
member of the new Lightweight Football League of Vir-
ginia. Also, Lexington alumni, under the direction of Dr.
Reid White, 1919, have brought about an enthusiastic re-
vival of crew. The administration and faculty are heartily
in accord with these additions to our athletic program and
our student body is enthusiastic about them. When this
improvement was started, circulars were passed among
the students, and nearly two-thirds of them indicated they
were interested and would support such activities. One
hundred and sixty boys, weighing 155 pounds or less,
stated they would try out for lightweight football, if a
team were organized.

There are many projects in this student-alumni pro-
gram that we hope to put into effect in the very near
future. It would enlighten you, | am sure, to enumerate
a few of them:

(1) One half-hour discourse each year to the student
body outlining the work of the Alumni Association ;

(2) Alumni Association furnishing program for as-
sembly hour once each semester ;

(3) Alumni Board members speaking to seniors and
freshmen, once each year ;

(4) Bringing to the attention of students the achieve-
ments of alumni;

(5) Whenever opportune, telling students of some un-
selfish service performed by an alumnus ;

(6) Undergraduate essay contest on the meaning and
purpose of an alumni organization ;

[ 14]

 

Frank Pollock, who was among those
present for the 1921 Reunion

(7) Promotion of a series of leg”
tures on college history, traditions, and
so forth; {

(8) Advisory work with college
news editors ;

(9) Student staff to help with al- :
umni magazine ;
(10) Student speakers at alan
meetings. ]

There is an unlimited field in this
program of cultivating the undergrady-
ate. We have a good start, and if our
program can be carried out, I am con j
fident that a great many of our alumn i
problems will be solved.

Another project sponsored by vou :
Association has at last got under way,
and that is the sale of Washington and
Lee commemorative plates. Approxi-
mately four thousand plates have been
sold and delivered, and to those who have not bought
them and are interested, I beg to report that we havea
good supply on hand, available for immediate shipment,

I could not close this report without expressing my
gratitude to your retiring president, Dr. Fowlkes, th
Board members and hundreds of alumni for the assist-
ance they have rendered this past year; for without their
cooperation my feeble efforts would have been useless. |

 

Morrison New Alumni Headl

CLASSMATES and contemporaries of John Morrison
will not be surprised to hear that he has become presi-
dent of the Alumni Association, succeeding Dr. Richard
Fowlkes, 1915, because they will remember that John got
into the habit of being president of things when he wa
an undergraduate. They will recall, for instance, that dul
ing his college years he was president of the Cotillion
Club, president of the Junior Law Class, and president of
the Student Body. It will occur to them, likewise, that he
was Phi Kappa Psi, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma, “ 13"
Club, “11” Club, and a great many other things far tot
numerous to mention. {

At the present moment he lives in Charleston, Wes
Virginia, where he is a member of the law firm of Brown
Jackson, and Knight. He has been active in alumni acti i
ties in Charleston and a past president of the local chaptet

At the general meeting this spring, the new alumf
president made a very modest speech regarding hit
policies, and his hopes for the Association, but it wa!
easy to perceive that one with his energy and ability wil
do much for the organization he is to head. 4

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notes on General Meeting of Alumni
June 6, 1941

uE meeting was called to order by the President of
i Alumni Association, Dr. Richard Fowlkes, who
called on Dr. Gaines for his customary welcome to the
umni present. In a brief speech, Dr. Gaines thanked the
alumni for all the services they have rendered the Uni-
versity this year, pointing out that Washington and Lee
depends on its alumni more
than most schools do. He
also mentioned the possibil-
ity, on account of defense
measures, that the student
body would be smaller next
vear and that the income
from endowment would
probably be decreased, and
his hope that during this
time we may have the sym-
pathy and devotion of the

al

alumni.

On motion, the reading
of the minutes of the last
meeting was dispensed with.

A report of the Resolu-
tions Committee was called
for, and it was announced
that a resolution had _ re-
cently been presented to the
University Board of Trus-
tees, naming Mr. Joseph T.
Lykes and Mr. Clarence
Avery as the choice of the
alumni for filling vacancies
on the University Board,
and that at a recent meeting

 

of being an effective organization. The athletic program
that is now contemplated should offer an opportunity to
every student to take part in some sport or activity. In
addition to tootball, baseball, basketball and track, we
have quite an imposing list of other activities which have
been successfully carried out-—swimming, wrestling, ten-
nis, golf, fencing, rifle team
ant. lacrosse. .“Fheré: has
been a revival of interest in
boating, and there is now a
new course laid out on the
James River, capable of
furnishing facilities — for
eight-oared shells, and we
are looking forward with
considerable interest to in-
tercollegiate competition in
that sport. There has been
a great deal of interest this
spring in tennis, and our
coach for three weeks this
spring, Mr. ‘Bred. Perry;
went out last week and won
the championship of the
world. In all sports, defense
ineasures may play quite a
part next year,4can-only
say that if things don’t go
right next football season,
just say that our boys are
in camp where they belong,
and we're getting along all
right with youngsters.”
Dr. Fowlkes announced

of this Board, these two John Cooper Morrison, Jr., 1925, new president of the Alumni the election by the Alumni
gentlemen had been elected Association, with Richard W. Fowlkes, 1915, retiring president Board of John C. Morrison,

to that body.

The report of the Athletic Committee was given by
Mr. Stuart Moore, who said: “The new Athletic Commit-
'ee has only been in existence three or four months and
in that time has effected a workable organization, but has
lot gone as deeply as it may be called on hereafter to go
into the details of the athletic situation at Washington and
Lee. This new committee is composed of five faculty
embers, two alumni, two students, and gives promise

1925, of Charleston, West
Virginia, as president of the association for the coming
year and Mr. Stuart Moore, of Lexington, and Mr. Earl
Fitzpatrick, of Roanoke, to the Athletic Committee.
The Chairman of the Nominating Committee an-
nounced the nomination of Mr. Roger Bear, of Cincin-
nati, to fill the one vacancy existing for next year on the
Alumni Board. There being no further nominations from
the floor, Mr. Bear was unanimously elected.

[15]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni Fund as of July 22, 1941

   
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent |
1869-91...... os Oe BOs ain ak de Alumni Office 21000 foo Poe BOO oc age. Pinkney Grissor
TZ fas ee POD pe pes Wan Co Morton. (***1927 ALi TBS eee 17 TO sain ae Homer E. Hendersg
BPTI ROS occ, ee TOR es eae aa ee B. A. Judd PAI oe ps ci cen, ae ee R. C. Waa
WOE TRO ohcak: Go SOU oa ee eee Alumni Office © ***1922 A........ ies. LOG ica Proy o@. Musselwhit
MEP 1 ROR aS Se iss TSO er ba es Alam Office ***1922 1,0... Aa Le ae Joe: L: Silverste;
MIBGe 5 OMG J. W. Lattomus 1923 Anos Co, BOG a a Joseph R. Lon
MTR OS as Ge SOAs ee te a Alumni Office WTO cue: Gor SOMO eas AS Jy McCarth
*1898 oo. Pe FM oe ea Edw. A. O’Neal SPL ODA A See 20sec PS OG hoy Otis How
1800. io. Po eer ASS Wanfiee: ORS lord Te) Se SOMOS eee. John M. Lovelae
F100 ci. Be GO oeene ae S Ruffin Horne. #71925 A 2h 165-30. Rey. Bruce F. Gannawa
RRP IOOT Gee a: SE a John M. Corbett 1925 100 Foi BU OO ae George Wilson,
FRAO!  incics 1 TAG Gos Bel E. W. G. Boogher 1076-Aas ERY Seer ID i A ca: Thomas # Fole
LI0S.. cna. ee 1) 8 i ee a R. AD Ruff 1926-4. x Bierce POO Earl Valentin
TAR OOG Be iid. Fcc es Ty. Be Akers ***192/7 A. TO TD AN a ec gti ean Joe Lanie
#991905 soos ae WO lg 2 Se cae E. W, Kelly lees oe SS eeu te George D. Varne
HEE TIONG cries Loe £52 o ie eee Bot Mayer.  *t*1928 AL Daas BO ea J. W. Alderson f
SPOT SS PE xe Dr. D. W. M. MacCluer 1928 Taek Aceh. i. ZOO ocean te T. B. Bryang I
*FLO0B AS. a3 OO. re ROOM eb cs de Horace W. Phillips **1929 AL... 2b gas, PA ELOO RS Co es Julius G. Berr
#** 1908 Ts: GF ee | TO es. George. Penn: 8871929 1: Satie ace P50 es Charles L,. Claune
L9090A ..8 oe VO Kester W. Denman: Ft 1930 A: ... 26554 PS 00) ok ea W. Van Gilber
1009 Fe Pee TO a Retiben “Ragland. *F* 199013... Bat Or ae ae Bei Shipma
T9IOA ae ee VBA AIE, estate sis: Joseph R. Blackburn 193A Viti PON ne A Ben M. Ayar
E910: Lan FR as: BO OU. s cress Huch R. Hawthortie. 7 ** 19st £,...._.: OH eee Me IO eg Si caedss.. O. J. Wilkinson, h
FRETONT Al 20. ecco Oe OO James M. Barker [OPA 202s OSG fo R. L. McKinne

TOU GEL T fae Nj ceous Oe eee et essence Wm. S$. Engleby 1OGF Lis, Sa BO OU Aes oe Judge D. J. Savag
192, An ce POS i nei Gee Dan Owen PO oS Boe acts PUI oeulebdicocss ce Luther Violett, J

RIOD Te On iss Oe Wayne Ely 1056 La ee ie ee Wim. F. Ston
*ePIOLW A 2a POO U0 Sole CH Moore «TOs 9GA A cht. Be Fred O. Funkhouse

POTS oe POD eek H, B, Ghodlee 9991984 1. 3G PEO le ana Layne H. For
IOI A. i 2A 102 OU ete as W. J. Wilkins 135 As 98 BPO ieege pets L. P. Gassmat
PIA ge Oe UC, eee Stephen HK. Chadwick "19351000. 4.000 POCO ras es Tom C. Smit
PAIOTS AG 6c V7 PO. ct Ga. Howard C. Struck  ***1936 A....12..0.. APSO he, Charles A. Sweet, Ji

Poa T Sy ate: Bui ae PADD sss eee pee ates de Oa PIG Pacis 2. cet SMO ee CG, Olin Browne
MOR TOTG Ac, Leckie 77005 See ls 6 H. P. Magruder AE 1937 Av accs eee eave O00. eG Lea: Fielden Woodwar

#6*1016 1 AO. AT WO oe 8 F. Stanley Porter  ***1937 Lv Lice: SOG I. M. Scot
THA dO (92 SO ee EL Williams. < ***1038 A. .14 ia Wm. H. Danie

 

 

171s. Fa € 05.00 SE. Darraance << PF 1938 1/20 Sine me PO Hardwick Stuar
AP 1918. as Be 100.00. 5 ee. Niree, Js. Trotter, 31. Fe A. PG: |
IOI Oe De POUO Gs va Wins Foo Barron <**F 1990 1. Gee
TAIZ) Anis ES aie TED OO. C. Howard McCain 1940 A........ 4a tH
194G dos sc. hte. 13.00,...... John Newton Harman, IL
*More contributors than last year. Nonagrads 2..5..4..: BNI iss her voscice ered: saad Alumni Offic
** More money than last year. ae 4
*e* More contributors and more money. Poa es, 948.0000... $7,125.90

Nore: The above report of the 1941 Alumni Fund represents the largest number of
contributors and largest amount of money, on this date, since the inception of the
Class Agent Plan in 1933. There are approximately 200 men who contributed last
year from whom we have not heard. It is not too late to write to your
class agent, or, if you prefer, send your check direct to the
Alumni Office, and your class agent will be notified.

| 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

———

Washington and Lee and Defense

7 might be said of the two institutions of higher learn-
e in Lexington, that one symbolizes war, the other

oO
peace. pe es
For over a hundred years now, the Virginia Military
Institute has been training men who would be able to
<erve their country in the armed forces. For almost two
hundred years, Washington and Lee has trained men for
the pursuits of peace in the high hope that peace might
last.

But when war threatens, it is the duty of all colleges,
whatever their policies of the past may have been, to aid
‘1 the grim work ahead; and the college which bears in
title the names of two of the greatest of all American
nerals, will never be recreant in this duty.

its
ge

The effect of threatening war upon such an institu-
tion as ours can well be gauged by a contrast of the cata-
logue of Washington and Lee so late as 1939, with a de-
fense bulletin sent out by the University in April of this
year. On page 196 of the catalogue for 1939, under the
courses listed by the department of mathematics, one
may read:

Minrrary E,NGINEERING

“To students who wish it, the principles of fortifica-
tion and gunnery will be taught.”

This “course,” as everyone knows who is familiar
with the history of the University, arose from the gift to
this college in 1802 of about $25,000 for the Virginia
chapter of the Society of the Cincinnati, a gift which
carried with it the stipulation that a course in military
science must always be offered by the University. In every
catalogue, therefore, for years back, one may always find
this generous offer of a course in military engineering
“to students who wish it.” But for years now, this course
has been a mere gesture, simply because no student ever
did wish it. Next year, one suspects, it is going to be one
of the more popular courses of study on this campus.

Iver since the present emergency began to shape up,
Washington and Lee has been working on the problem of
how we, as an institution, could help our country. We
Were without an ROTC or any other such unit of military
training. We were thoroughly unprepared for war. But
now, the problem has been met, and, we think, wisely met.

A university bulletin issued to all students this spring
begins by quoting the words of President Roosevelt when
the Selective Service Act was first adopted: “Young
People should be advised that it is their patriotic duty to

continue the normal course of ther education, unless and
until they are called. ...”’

The bulletin goes on to emphasize the point that
modern warfare calls for special education and _ special
skills more than “‘the old routines of the drill, the march,
and the skirmish. ...In the clash of mechanized energies
only the competent can hope for mastery. This ‘total war-
fare’ has vastly enlarged the value of education itself,
broad education and thorough education.”

With this in mind, the university has worked out a
whole new program of training, designed to make its
graduates entirely competent to fulfil their roles in Na-
tional Defense if and when they are needed.

This program is described in the bulletin as follows:

SPECIAL COURSES

“Courses herewith listed, chiefly of a technical na-
ture, have direct bearing upon preparation for National
Defense. They are scattered through the four years and
represent a program which may easily and profitably be
carried along with the general education designed for a
career. Some of these courses, based upon pre-requisites,
are naturally not open to Freshmen; nor is it contem-
plated that the student will find it desirable to concen-
trate on these courses In any one year.

‘New courses are indicated by a star; all other courses
are now in the curriculum. No course is compulsory with
the exception of the usual requirements in hygiene. Credit
is given for every course, the exact amount being indi-
cated by figures within the parentheses.

1.*Military Fundamentals, 51-52 (2); Military history and
policy; the school of the soldier; organization; character-
istics of weapons; combat principles.

2.*Chemistry 260 (2); Military explosives and chemical war-
fare:

3. Drawing 1 (3): Engineering Drawing; use of instruments,
technical sketching and drawing.

4. Drawing 2 (3): Descriptive Geometry; simpler geometric
magnitudes, intersections and model making.

5. Drawing 151 (3): Advanced Drawing; sections and con-
ventions; pictorial representations and sketching.

6.*Geology 255 (3): Military Geology and Topography; Map
reading and construction; physiographic and geologic
features in offensive and defensive tactics.

7. Hygiene and Physical Education 1-2 (2): Personal hy-
giene. :

8. Hygiene and Physical Education 103-4 (2): Including
first aid and lifesaving, sanitation and camp management,
and other phases of the defense problem.

9. Mathematics 207-8 (6): Military Engineering; principles
of fortification and gunnery.

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

10.*Physics 154 (3): Military Photography: basic course in
photography with military applications.

11. Physics 207 (3): Aeronautical Meteorology; a study of
atmospheric and weather conditions with particular refer-
ence to aviation.

12. Physics 208 (3): Airplane Flight; an introduction to the
science of aeronautics in its application to the problems of
flight.

13. Physics 254 (3): Applied Mechanics;
mechanics to engineering problems.

14. Surveying 152 (3): Plane Surveying; land surveying; re-
duction and plotting of field notes; field and office work.

15.*Political Science 51-52 (2): Citizenship and Defense; a
seminar and lecture course designed to acquaint the stu-
dent with the various defense agencies and organizations,
and the problem of citizen readjustment under the defense
program.

an application of

AUXILIARY COURSES

“Courses herewith suggested contain material of 1m-
portance for the defense program in one or more of its
phases. These courses, it will be observed, run through-
out the entire curriculum of the University.

Principles of Accounting (Accounting 101-2); Personnel
Management (Commerce 212); Industrial Organization and
Management (Commerce 256); Ocean Trade and Transpor-
tation (Commerce 208); Marketing (Commerce 211); Re-
sources and Industries (Economics 209); Economic Geog-
raphy of South America (Economics 260); Economic Geog-
raphy of North America (Economics 259); Social Control of
Business (Economics 204); Inland Transportation (Hconom-
ics 206).

Measurements in Psychology and Education (Education
256); French Conversation and Composition (French 211-12);
Economic Geology (Geology 154); German Conversation and
Composition (German 211-12); Scientific German, including
Military German, (German 201-2); History of Latin America
(History 263-64); American Diplomatic History (History
255-56); World War and Reconstruction (History 252); Pub-
lic Opinion (Journalism 222).

Administrative Law (Law 260); International Relations
(Political Science 254); International Law (Political Science
256); Applied Psychology (Psychology 201); Spanish Con-
versation and Composition (Spanish 211-12); Business Sta-
tistics (Statistics 205).

MISCELLANEOUS RESOURCES AND OPPORTUNITIES

“A faculty committee on National Defense, appointed
at the beginning of the 1940-41 session, keeps students
informed of developments in this field and seeks practical
forms of helpfulness ; it arranged all details, for example,
at the time students of proper age registered under the
Selective Service Act. Members of this committee, as well
as the regular faculty advisers, are always available to
discuss individual problems with any student.

“On the campus various modes of extra-curricular
activity promote certain phases of preparation. Most
notable among these 1s the Rifle Club, affiliated with the
National Rifle Association, sponsored by the War De-
partment which issues ammunition and awards proficiency

[ 18 ]

  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

qualification ratings for the ranks of marksman, sharp
shooter, and expert rifleman. |

“A joint committee, representing the two educationg
institutions in Lexington, the County of Rockbridge
and the town, is now studying the feasibility of an ajp
port, designed primarily for training of pilots, but i
conclusion has been announced.

“Students desiring to continue ‘the normal course y
their education’ in regular session and to utilize the sym.
mer months for military training will be specially ic
terested in the summer opportunities provided by the
branches of the Service. The Naval Reserve this year ha:
summer training, open to men with at least two years of
college work, leading to commissions. The Marine Corps
this summer has two types of camp, one three-month fo,
graduates, leading to commission; and a six week, de
signed to be given for each of two successive summers
open to sophomores and juniors, with a_ possibility :
commission at graduation. The War Department is now
making a survey of eesti: summer training but has nol
issued final announcement.” |

 

Weddings

Again the Alumni Office has the pleasure of extenaay ¢
congratulations to several couples recently married ¢

follows:
1917

WiLiiAM Otin Burton to Miss Marceline Guynetl
Shinker on June 14th in the Foundry Methodist Chureh
Washington, D. C.

1935

Jackson Martin Hopptk, Jr., to Miss Emily Joy
Whiting, June 14th, in a double wedding at St. Jona
Episcopal Church, Montgomery, Alabama. ’

is iiss cael

1936

SAMUEL Lutz ALEXANDER to Miss Margaret Joyce
Wallace on the fourteenth of June in St. George’s Lo
pal Church, Fredericksburg, Virginia.

1937

Harotp Waip CocHran, Jr., to Miss Lora Jane Lad
on April 4th in Hinsdale, Ilinois. j

JAMES Knox Tarte, 111, to Miss Helen Elizabeth Tol
ley on June 24 in Lee Chapel, Lexington, Virginia.

1941

WILLiAM LEE SHANNON to Miss Virginia T ichenot
on the seventh of June in Lexington, Virginia. |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class

Notes

 

1892

ALFRED B. CLAYTON is a
physician in Bedford, Virginia.

1893

B. A. Jupp is practicing law
at 25 Broad Street, New York.

 

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccu-
rate. If so, we hereby apologize.

1903

HERBERT GEORGE COUPER
Girps is Attorney General of
the State of Florida with offices
in Tallahassee.

A. C. BURKHOLDER is Chair-
man of the Department of Eco-

 

 

Dr. GEorGE BoLLinGc LEE is
practicing medicine in New York City, with offices in The

Plaza Hotel.
1896
James W. Larromus is practicing law in Wilming-
ton, Delaware, with offices in the Citizens Bank Building.

1898

ALBAN G. SNYDER lives at 1820 Clydesdale Place,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

BorDEN Burr is a member of the law firm of Benners,
Burr, McKamy & Forman, Brown-Marx Building, Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

Dr. R. I. EBERSOLE resides at 1055 Cambridge Cres-
cent, Norfolk, Virginia.

 

——

1899

A. SEDDON JONEs, JR., is division sales manager for
the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, Richmond,
Virginia.

James A. McCrurg is minister of the First Presby-

terian Church, St. Petersburg, Florida. He claims the
distinction of having the largest family of
any member of the Class of "99—nine—five
daughters and four sons.

1902

J. Woop Grass is a member of the law
frm of Glass & Chappell, Nowata, Okla-

homa.

  

EK. W. Boocrer lives at 325 West Ma-
ple Avenue, Merchantville, New Jersey.

W. Dewey Cooks is vice-president and
Treasurer of the Southern Fertilizer &
Chemica] Company of Savannah, Georgia.

shin

 

ETTERS |f HN

“alti key }

 

nomics and Business Adminis-
tration, Southwest Texas State Teachers College, San

Marcos, ‘Texas.
1904

Dr. S. W. SCHAEFER has moved from Colorado

Springs, Colorado, where he has been for many years, to
East 70th Street, New York.

K. I. McKay is a member of the law firm of McKay,
Macfarlane, Jackson & Ramsey, Maas Office Building,
Tampa, Florida.

J. B. Axkrs is Assistant Chief Engineer of the South-
ern Railway System, Washington, D. C.

1906

B. J. Mayer 1s a member of the law firm of Lovejoy
and Mayer, LaGrange, Georgia.

Mitton HERMAN is in the merchandising business at
Danville, Virginia.

Dr. F. R. CrawForp is practicing medicine in Farm-
ville, Virginia.

GrorcE W. P. Wuipr is a member of
the law firm of Lord & Whip, Munsey
Building, Washington, D. C.

CuHarLes A. Dunvap lives in Welling-
ton, Kansas.

 
 

1907

T. Owrn Bac ey is in the insurance
business under the firm name of Bagley &
Bagley, K. of P. Building, Fayetteville,
Tennessee.

    
  

 

Ce

i aie THe Hon. Joun W. FLannacan, Jr.,

is a Member of Congress from the Ninth
District of Virginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1908
By Horace W. (Racs) Puittirps, Class Agent

Our letter to RicHArD W. Hynson in Washington,
D. C., was not answered by Dick Hynson, as his secretary
advised us that he had been ill for some time. We trust
he is entirely recovered.

Epwarp Fryer Kinc came to Washington and Lee
in 1904 from Castle Heights School in Tennessee, and
he was as full of pep as Bernarr MacFadden himself.
Eddie did not tarry long in our midst, but he sent us a
nice letter and a check from his home in Monrovia, Cali-
fornia, and we are duly grateful. He is Edward F. King,
Inc., Studebaker Since 1916, 210 South Myrtle Avenue.

Joun S. Lone of Tampa, like many other of our good
men went to M. I. IT. after leaving Washington and Lee.
He gets pulled from both institutions.

JoHN SABERTON is superintendent of the City of
Tampa, Florida,. Water Department. He says he gets
‘bids’ from the Class of 1910 also. It is wonderful to re-
main so young. Our best to him and thanks for his good
fetter.

Epwin H. McGitu’s address at Santa Fe, New
Mexico, is correctly listed. He is an engineer with the
New Mexico State Highway Department. We are in-
debted to him for a nice letter and a copy of the New
Mexico magazine featuring the Coronado celebration
held throughout the Southwest this summer. He has one
daughter, who is a junior at Mills College, Oakland, Call-
fornia.

JosepH PucH Noreverr, Lieutenant Commander,
retired, USN, is at present living at 633 Fifth Street,
Lakewood, New Jersey. He has two daughters but still
speaks with a Tar Heel accent. His desire for a return
to active duty is likely to be met, we believe. Our thanks
to him for his letter and his donation.

Ricuarp L&E PAGE is general agent for the Massa-
chusetts Bonding & Insurance Company with offices in
the Monticello Arcade Building in Norfolk. A consistent
supporter of the Alumni Fund, Richard Lee did not fail
us, and his generous help and letter indebt us further
to him.

Horace W. PHILLIps, your correspondent, 1s now
signing off from Hardeeville, South Carolina, where he
still follows the lumber business although not actively
engaged in operating at this writing. His thanks to each
and every one of you for your cooperation with material
financial aid and inspirational personal letters.

[ 20 |

 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
  

Jor, J. DAvENPoRT RopGERS wrote us a much al
preciated letter from his home in Tuskeegee, Alabama 4
After a very active life, he has been incapacitated since
an attack of influenza last winter. We hope he will soon 3
be entirely well. He spent some years at Oxford Uni
versity but would rather be in Alabama than in Englang
right at this time. He has our thanks and best wishes for
a speedy recovery. ;

Ben SmrrH says he has retired to a farm. We are a
cracker ourselves. We bothered Ben so much he finally
paid off in self-defense. His fine personal letter and his
check are most welcome. ‘

BEVERLEY EF. STEELE is at 303 Richmond Road, Wil.
liamsburg, Virginia. Beverley says he came out of south
west Virginia and spent one year at Lexington and doesn
see how he can be what we claim. The best proof of ou
position is that he paid up. 7

LeonARD Mayer Sern is an attorney-at-law with
offices in Camden, Arkansas. He has a son on the Tula e
football squad. If Stern, Jr., is a chip off the old block,
he will be fine material for a linesman. Mayer sent us IS a
check, and we certainly appreciate it. 4

Perry W. TuRNER is an attorney-at-law in Birming-
ham, Alabama, with offices at 600 North 18th Street,
Perry has consistently supported the Alumni fund, and
his check and letter answering our appeal were promptly
and gratefully received. Also an alumnus of University
of Alabama, Perry has two alma maters to fall back o .

Joun Davin Wetts of Wilson, North Carolina,
wants to know what constitutes an alumnus anyway. Mr.
Wells says his ‘stay’ at Washington and Lee was of one
week’s duration and that two other schools also write hi n
regularly at this season and that he is convinced that the
old adage about two being company and three being a
crowd is but too true. We appreciate his courtesy. 4

Henry M. Wuirs is the sole proprietor of Henry
White & Company, Investment Bankers, located in the
Fidelity Building in Baltimore, Maryland. Burley is
blessed with two children. His loyalty to the University
continues unabated although he doubts if he would be of
much help to anybody’s football team from now on. 4

FRANKLIN KeANS RADER writes us on the letterheat
of Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Fra | |
says he 1s really a 1906-er. He sent us a donation, so é
claim him. We don’t know whether he is a D.D. or the
man who got Clemson’s coach away from them, Anyway
he has our best wishes, and to us he is Dr. F. K. Rader- -
ex-1908. More power to him. ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1909

KestER DENMAN is a member of the law firm of
\fantooth and Denman, Lufkin, Texas.

DEvALL GWATHMEYy is Rector of St. John’s Church,
Wytheville, Virginia.

sc N. HosHour 1s City Collector for the city of
Staunton, Virginia.

Cart HINTON 1s postmaster of the town of Hinton,
West Virginia.

G. J. Dominick has been representing Sherwin Wil-

liams Company | for twenty-four years Wi; fe
and has a splendid sales record this year, O Yi,

having been top notch sales manager
twice during his itinerary. He has four
children, all married.

ELtiott VAWTER is Secretary of @
Barrows & Company, Inc., Miners & *
Shippers, Huntington, West Virginia.

1910
J. R. Carton lives at 517 Wash-

  
   
   
  

ce SSS

nessee. His offices are in the Chattanooga Bank Building.
He has a daughter in school in Washington and a son in
the law school here.

LutueEr G. Scorr is still practicing law in Bluefield,
West Virginia, and is Referee in Bankruptcy and City At-
torney for that city. His offices are in the Commercial
Bank Building.

W. C. ARMENTROUT is in the insurance business in
Elkins, West Virginia.

Rurus BowMaNn is District Representative of the
New England Mutual Life Insurance Company at Roan-
oke, Virginia. He married Nan Logan,
and they have three sons. His home is in
Salem, Virginia.

Herman A. Sacks is an Attorney
at Law, National Bank of Commerce
Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Rosser J. Cokké is a member of the
law firm of Coke & Coke, First National
en Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

-  1gh

Y ‘7
.
ih!
ee Of 3
hiss 33
: 12S = 7 es
REP ESS xP |

Brown D. Trustow is still with

  

  
 
   

ington Street, Lynchburg, Virginia. : Sa wy ST a 0p, Cham ton Nice
) a -\ Virginia. He has a daughter entering
Se = "ly Sl SSS A

 

\|

Wyatt C. HEprickx is in the General
Construction business under the name of
Wyatt C. Hedrick Construction Company, Dallas, Fort
Worth and Houston, Texas. He has three daughters.

CHARLES P. (“CHuckK”) RosInson is president of
the Business Service Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
He has offices in the Park Building.

J. W. Rapgrr, for the past year, has been located at
Colonial National Historical Park, Yorktown, Virginia,
a reservation he helped establish in 1930.

Puitiep W. Murray is a member of the law firm of
Lett, Murray & Ford, First National Bank Building,
Newport News, Virginia.

C. W. (“Brit”) Streit is vice-president of the
Southern Cement Company, Birmingham, Alabama.

“Tupsy” Derr is president and general manager of
the newly formed Vanguard Paints and Finishes, In-
©orporated, Marietta, Ohio. His son, Gardner, graduated
trom Washington and Lee in 1939, with the B. S. degree.
His daughter Betsy entered Oberlin Conservatory and
College this fall.

1911

Epwarp E. Brown has the agency for the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Company in Chattanooga, Ten-

,Z

4, ah ——

  

———__—__—

‘college this fall.

1912

B. C. Moomaw, Jr., is secretary of the Covington,
Virginia, Chamber of Commerce. He says he is still grow-
ing apples and still losing money on them. His son, Ben
ITT, graduated from High School last June. Mr. Moomaw
also says he is an expert trout fisherman which he con-
siders the noblest of all hobbies.

Tom GtLascow is still a member of the firm of Glas-
gow-Stewart & Company, Automobile Supplies and Home
Appliances, Charlotte, North Carolina.

J. C. PrcKENs is with the Southern Railway System,
Box 1908, Washington, D. C.

Harry Gunn FANNIN is president of the Com-
mercial Bank in Panama City, Florida. He was recently
elected Mayor of Panama City.

FRANK R. Rurr is practicing medicine in Fresno,
California. His address is 3244 Kerckhoff Avenue.

Dr. Epwarp Lyons writes his Class Agent, Dan
Owen, as follows: “May I congratulate, through you, the
school which can look back upon almost 200 years of
fruitful life. There are all sorts of schools and all kinds

1]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

of alumni. My feelings are that there is only one Wash-
ington and [ee and from years of contacts with men of
other schools I am truly of the opinion that the Wash-
ington and Lee alumni rank with the best of them.”

Mason C. DEAVER is connected with the Lexington
Post Office. He lives at 506 Jackson Ave., Lexington,
Virginia.

H. E. Porrer is practicing law at 1600 Integrity
Building, 1528 Walnut Street, Philadelphia.

D. Wampcer EarMAN is practicing law in Harrison-
burg, Virginia.

R. KE. SreEts is executive secretary of the Virginia
Railway Association, 1317 Planters Bank Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia. His son was a senior at Washington and

Lee this year.

DANIEL B. S’rraLey retired from the practice of law
in Crown Point, Indiana, in 1931 and since that time has
been engaged in writing, chiefly poetry. His address 1s
care The Chit-Chat Syndicate, 4358 Drexel Boulevard,
Chicago, Illinois. During the past six months he has been
syndicating verse to approximately three hundred repre-
sentative dailies throughout the United States and Can-
ada. His writings have also appeared in various journals,
magazines, American and English anthologies.

1913

Lewis T'wyman is City Attorney for Miami, Florida.

Grapy Doak Davipson lives in Harmon, Buchanan
County, Virginia.

S. C. Rose is the owner of the Roselands Dairy, West
Point, Mississippi.

J. A. BorMAN is pastor of the Catoctin Presbyterian

Church, Waterford, Loudoun County, Virginia. He 1s
married and has two children.

Herpert Carson is minister of Trinity Presbyterian
Church, Montgomery, Alabama.

1914

Wa ter J. WILKINS is in charge of the Federal
Compress and Warehouse Company, Pine Bluff, Ark-
ansas.

Leon O’Quinn is a member of the law firm of
Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker & O’Quinn, Attorneys at
Law, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Morris MAsINvrER is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the State & City Building.

| 22 |

 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Francrs MILeer is representing Fairfax County ; id
the Virginia House of Delegates, and in addition is @
member of the State Advisory Legislative Council,

1915

Herman EF. Utmer is located at 1315 Barnett Builg-
ing, Jacksonville, Florida, being the senior member ai
the firm of Stockton, Ulmer and Murchison. He is mag.
ried and has two children.

Ropert W. WINBorNE is located at 1109 Franklin
Road, Roanoke, Virginia.

Cart C. WurzBACH is located at Brady Building, §
Antonio, ‘Texas, and actively engaged in politics. Last yea
he managed the campaign in Texas of Paul V. MeNut
for the Democratic nomination for President. :

JosepH W. Hopces is Judge of the Sixth Judie
District—-Grant, Luna, Hidalgo Counties—with his offi
in Silver City, New Mexico. He also served one year
the New Mexico State Senate in 1923. He is marriec
and has four children.

Joun D. WorTHINGTON is editor and owner of The
Aegis, the oldest and largest weekly paper in his
county. His home is in Bel Air, Maryland. As a sideline
he has a 200 acre farm where he breeds registered Guern:
sey cattle of which he has seventy-five head which he says
will stand pretty close inspection. His Ug sons range
from six feet to six feet four inches, ‘so that the old
man is the smallest member of the family in height, by no
means in this case when we speak of breadth. Unfort I-
nately that waist line just seems to grow and grow.” 4

CHartes M. Switzer has spent most of his ti ne
since graduation working for the du Pont Company. F a1
the past ten years he has been helping make ‘‘Cellophane. ;
His address is 2406 Nemours Building, Wilmington
Delaware. ‘

Ki WittraMms is also with the du Pont Company. Hi
place of business is Waynesboro, Virginia, and he say
he is still trying to clothe the world with rayon with |
fair measure of success. 4

GrorcE S. Morrison is president of Rodgers ‘
Company, Cotton Merchants, Houston, ‘Texas. '
James FE. Bear is head of the Biblical Departill

Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

wrote that he was glad that he had gone to Furope }
1939, sot: 1940.

1916
RusseL_t S. Ropes is general manager of the Tuls
Oklahoma, Chamber of Commerce. His only child, Kath

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

ine V irginia, 1s attending Randolph-Macon Woman's

ef :

College Last October he was elected secretary-treasurer
5 : . ° is m a

f the National Association of Commercial Organization

0

Secretaries.

Bruce F. WooprurF is a member of the law firm of
Woodruff & Ward, Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.
His partner is Bill Ward, LL.B. 1930.

Davip FALK has just completed the erection and oc-
cupancy of a new store building—O Falk’s, Department
Store—in ‘Tampa, Florida. He says they now have one of
the largest stores in the State, and the bigger the store the
bigger the headaches and problems that

come with it. He is still unmarried. : 7
y
1918 "Ply,
RaymMonp M. BEar is now in his (

twenty-first year in Government. service.
He has been engaged in aeronautical engi-
neering work, and for the past ten years
has been specializing in aircraft propeller .
design. His address is Bureau of Aero- °
nautics, Navy Department, Washington,

W. P. DANIEL 1s. Superintendent of ;

City Schools of New Albany, Mississippi. His son, John,
is now a senior in the University.

 

Vircit TRoTrer, JR., is a member of the firm of V. J.
Trotter & Sons, General Merchandise Cotton Buyers,
Monticello, Arkansas.

JAMEs J. IzArp is a member of the firm of Chas. Luns-
ford & Sons, Insurance, Roanoke, Virginia, with offices
in the Colonial-American National Bank Building.

Mitton Rocerrs is still with the American Water
Works and Electric Company, 50 Broad Street, New
York.

Jimmy Ler is Managing Editor of Chemical Engi-
neering, a McGraw-Hill publication, 330 West 42nd
Street, New York.

PauL Pickens lives in Cumberland, Maryland.

; JAcKson CoLLtns is practicing law at 111 Broadway,
New York.

1919

Jimmy Farn is president of the City National Bank
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He is also Mayor of
the “Twin-City.”

ys Wh
ypc ai)

RayMOND WICKERSHAM is Pastor of the Bethel
Presbyterian Church, Walterboro, South Carolina.

1920
Joun W. KERN is a member of the United States
Board of ‘Tax Appeals, Washington, D. C.

R. HeNcE Youne gives his address as 1207 Court
Street, Port Huron, Michigan.

RANDOLPH W. Smiru has for the past ten years been
connected with the Arkansas School of Medicine in var-
ious and sundry teaching capacities, and at the same time
keeping up the private practice of medicine.
He has a wife and two children: a son

py
7) eleven, and a daughter six.

be

  
   

Uf

Joun C. BLocKer has, since 1925, been

y practicing law in St. Petersburg, Florida,
Wy 7 with offices in the First Federal Building.

He matried: Ruby Ford Harris of El Do-
¥ rado, Arkansas, in 1926, and they have
three children, all girls.

Harry L,. Moors is professor of Poul-
try Husbandry, Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute, Blacksburg, Virginia. He is mar-
ried and has three boys.

Henry S. Barker has been with the Sharon Steel
Corporation at Sharon, Pennsylvania, since 1920. He has
been married since 1925 and has a boy age ten and a girl
eight.

JamrEs P. Hitt is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Florida, with offices in the Atlantic National Bank Build-
ing.

1921

Homer I. HENpErRson is Trust Officer of the Second

National Bank, Houston, Texas.

1922

Dewey A. ReEyNotps, 2638 Voelkel Avenue, South
Hills, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is associate chemist with
the United States Bureau of Mines, located at the Pitts-
burgh Experiment Station. He has been author or co-
author of twenty-seven published papers dealing with
various problems of fuel research, mainly on the carboni-
zation of coal. He is married and has two daughters.

Joun H. Lincotn has been in poor health for about
two years but is now very much improved. His address
is KR. F. D, No. 5, Lexington, Virginia.

B. H. Arpocas? is Athletic Director at the Asheville
School, Asheville, North Carolina. He married Miss Vir-

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ginia Lee of Asheville in 1932, and they have one daugh-
ter, Virginia Lee, who is three years old.

1923

Josepu R. Lone is a member of the law firm of For-
dyce, White, Mayne, Williams & Hartman, 506 Olive
Street, St. Louis, Missourt.

Trp Harris is reading plays and books for three mo-
tion picture companies: Samuel Goldwyn, Radio-Keith-
Orpheum, and Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer. His address is 73
Perry Street, New York.

W. Gace Boyp 1s special representative of the Mutual
Life Insurance Company of New York in Jacksonville,
Florida. His home address is 828 Engleside Avenue.

GrorcE C. Mason is president of the Gem-Dandy
Garter Company, Madison, North Carolina. Vaughan
Penn is associated with him in business, Vaughan in the
New: York office in the selling-end, George in the factory
manufacturing garters, suspenders, belts and foundation
garments.

1924
By Otts Howe, Class Agent

lL, Lucran ALtLcoop is in the real estate business in
Birmingham, Alabama. He is married and has a daughter
eight years old, and a son nearly two years old.

J. D. Basser, Jr., is still in Bassett, Virginia, where
he is president of the J. D. Bassett Manufacturing Com-
pany, Inc. He asks to be remembered to all the class but
doesn’t say a word about being married.

CHARLIE BERLIN is connected with the Census Bureau
in Memphis. He boasts of having been married for over
fifteen years and having thre boys aged 14, 13 and 9.
That record really beats most of us.

BERRY Brooks, JR., is in the cotton business in Mem-
phis when he isn’t busy traveling or hunting. He has
hunted, fished and traveled in nineteen countries in
Europe, besides Alaska, Canada and most of Mexico and
Central America. Also in any part of the U. S. A. you
might mention. He is married and has one daughter,
seven years old.

Joun D.'T. Born is back in law practice in Evansville,
Indiana, after a year of graduate work at Harvard Law
school. He is married and has two daughters, aged ten
and four.

THE REVEREND Mr. R. B. (Bos) CAMPBELL is an
Ivpiscopal minister, after having taught at Fpiscopal Higa
School, taken a year of law, and entered the Presbyterian

| 24 |

  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
   

ministry. He is married and has a fine church in Steube
ville, Ohio. 7

C. F. Cartson is located in Greensboro, North Cay
lina, after having traveled in Mexico, Central and Sou
America, and Europe, for the Vick Chemical Compan
He is now President of the Monarch Elevator & Machi
Company of Greensboro. He is married and has
children, Robert, nine, and Ann, five years old.

J. A. DAvENPorRT, JR., is in the cotton and gene,
merchandise business in Mer Rouge, Louisiana. He J
ried a Randolph-Macon girl and reports a very pleas; 2
visit in Lexington and Lynchburg last summer, Th
have two boys. {

Watt Frencu is Sales Supervisor for T omlenson
High Point, furniture manufacturer. He lives in Ri¢
mond, Virginia, and has a wife, one son and two da ‘
ters. Also one dog. ]

W. Favre SLarer went from Washington and Lee
Cornell University, where he received his M. A. deg
in 1925. He is now head of the W. F. Slater Engineeri
Corporation, handling air conditioning in Mississip
Arkansas, and ‘Tennessee. He is married and has an 1 eig
year old son. Their home is Memphis. 4

J. F. Seats left our class after two years and finish
his education at the University of Hawaii. He return
to Chattanooga and is now Commanding Officer, Cf
Company 4471, Bishopville, South Carolina. He is
ried but has no children.

J. Mervin LovELAceE is practicing law in Su
Virginia. He is Commonwealth’s Attorney for the City
Suffolk.

Stacy GIFFORD is practicing law in Greensho
North Carolina. ’

1925

A. B. Hartess, senior marketing specialist of Tt
North Carolina Department of Agriculture, was ele t
secretary and treasurer of the Federal State Inspecte
Association of America and editor of their monthly pt
lication The Notesheet at the annual meeting of the ¢
ganization in Winchester, Virginia, in September. q

Bruck F. GANNAWAY is minister of the First Me
odist Church of Haines City, Florida. He has arrang
for the payment of the church debt, after a three-yé
program. The church was dedicated by Bishop Kern
June 9th. q

GiIBsON WITHERSPOON is attorney for the Unit
States Fidelity & Guaranty Company, Meridian, Miss

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

ippi He was married April 25th and moved into a new
sippl.

house he had just completed.

Epwin W. Brown is living at Pocahontas Drive, Vir-
oinla Beach, Virginia. He 1s married and has two chil-
oOo

dren, a boy and a girl.

Harry A. Dawson lives at Kensington, Maryland.
He is married and has two daughters, Helen and Polly,
aved respectively two and three.
as

Bo McMittan has been located in Athens, Tennes-
see, for eleven years. His business is the Athens Coal
and ‘Transfer Company. He is married and has two chil-
dren, a boy and a girl. He is President
of the Kiwanis Club and an elder in the
Presbyterian Church.

Marvin F. HumMer is in the coal VN 4
and fuel oil business at 802 B Street,
N. E., Washington, D. C.

Jounny McVay is national adver-- .
tising manager for the Huntington Pub- Zea;
lishing Company, Huntington, West
Virginia. This company publishes Hunt--~4
ington’s two daily newspapers and a
combination Sunday edition. He has
been with the company since 1927. He
and his wife live on a small farm six miles from Hunt-
ington, and he spends his spare time farming and fishing.
mis home address is R. F. D.-No. 1, North Kenova,
Ohio.

1926

Curtis LANGHORNE is Dean of the College of Arts
and Sciences, Emory University, Emory, Georgia.

V. J. KrereENBAUm is in the lumber business in EKm-
poria, Virginia. He is married and has a boy nine years
old and a girl seven.

J. Rosert Smirn has a wholesale gasoline and oil
business in Chilhowie and Bristol, Virginia.

C. J. Wattin is Chief Engineer of the Virginia Hot
Springs, Incorporated, Hot Springs, Virginia. He holds
an associate membership in the American Society of Civil
Engineers and is a member of the Virginia Society of
Professional Ingineers. He is married and has a daughter
eight years old.

1929

Norrts Smiru is practicing medicine in Greensboro,
North Carolina.

Jim Castner is practicing law with the firm of Kris-
teller and Zucker, 744 Broad Street, Newark, New Jersey.

   
 

 

Dr. JAMES WitiiamM TANKARD is engaged in the
practice of medicine and surgery at Hilton Village, Vir-
einia.

AsA Moore JANNEY lives in Lincoln, Virginia.

FRANK ParkEr, JR., is a Real Estate Broker in
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Water H. Witcox is still with the S. D. Warren
Company, Paper Manufacturers, 2 Park Avenue, New
York. He visited the campus recently.

JuLttus Bgrry says he is still unmarried, still at-

XE tempting to manage a general insur-
ha lee se ‘ : .
a Id) M ance business, still attempting to play
a Be golf. His home is in Tupelo, Mississippi.
Ve
Al VEO Ip Maptson is a member of the law
oO fs ‘ : ‘ ,
ee ~~) firm of Madison, Madison & Files with
Fi ~ ‘ 4 ee
ELS SS. offices in Madison and Bastrop, Louisi-
{SSN
Re = Se ana.
= Ul
ail &
Y, WititiaAM THomAS BLAcK is prac-
\ fy, ticing medicine with offices in the Phy-
SULA le! cians & Surgeons Building, Memphis,

‘Tennessee.

Ben Eastwoop lives at 1926 Milan
Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

1931

Jok Macee¥ is with the William Morris Theatrical

Agency in New York. He is living at the Hotel Royalton,
44 West 44th Street.

Dr. W. V. RUCKER is practicing medicine in Bedford,
Virginia.

Lawton CaLHouwn is still unmarried, and makes his
home in Savannah, Georgia, with his family. He is em-
ployed in the capacity of Assistant Sales Manager by the
Savannah Sugar Refining Corporation. His interest in
Washington and Lee, its faculty, alumni, and students
continues undiminished.

Crirton McMi tan, Jr., lives at 909 Lay Road,
Clayton, Missouri. He gives no news of himself in his
letter.

Dr. Joun O. McNEEL, last spring was attached to
the Coast Guard Cutter Alexander Hamilton as Ship’s
Surgeon (Reserve) United States Public Health Service.
He had expected to go on this same vessel to the South
Seas as physician to the National Geographic Society—
University of Virginia Expedition. Due to developments

[25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of the war in FKurope this expedition was cancelled. He
planned to return to take up his place as Assistant D1-
rector of Student Health at the University of Virginia in
August. He was located at the University last year.

Jack Myross entered upon his duties as pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, McLean, Texas, in May,
1940. His daughter is now two years old, and, he says:
“trying to run the house.”

Paut ALLEN Horwnor is president of Hornor Broth-
ers, Engineers, Inc., Clarksburg, West Virginia.

WatctER HorrMAN is a member of the law firm of
Breeden & Hoffman, National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia.

1932

Burt Farser has recently been promoted to Musical
Director at Radio Station WLW, Cincinnati, Ohio. He is
active in directing his own band at the majority of Cin-
cinnati’s social events.

Davin F.. CrossEn is practicing law in St. Louis, Mis-
souri, with offices in the Security Building.

Joun C. Harris is the Executive General Partner in
the Scottsboro Wholesale Company, Scottsboro, Ala-
bama. He says: “It’s a business that depends on doing a
volume on a very close mark-up, and consequently we're
always in a rush resembling a mad house, but still I’m
carried away with it.”

Herpert DoLLAHIte is Assistant Manager of the
Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D. C.

Fi FINKELSTEIN 1s practicing law in Jacksonville,
Florida, with offices in the Graham Building.

EVERETT Cross supervises five playgrounds and com-
munity centers in Washington, D. C., under the Depart-
ment of Recreation.

193%

Bos Kaptan is with the Interstate Stores Company,
Owensboro, Kentucky. He likes Owensboro and expects
to make it his home.

Watiace WERBLE has resigned from Transradio
Press Service after having served as Washington Bureau
manager and later southern manager for that service. He
has started a specialized weekly the Washington News
Letter devoted to government activity and trends in the
food, drug, cosmetic, and related fields.

WALLACE SHEFFIELD is in the hardware business in
Americus, Georgia. He says he has sold his airplane and
stopped flying.

| 26 |

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

JosepH C. ConNER is a District Agent for the Coy
necticut Mutual Life Insurance Company with offices
Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania. His residence address is \
W. Main Street, Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania.

Ernest McLELLAN is with the Alden Mills, J
Orleans. 7

Simon M. Parnver is teaching in Bedford, Vira 1
He reports the addition of twin boys to his family ,
May 8, 1940. He also has a three year old daughter, :

Jes Darsy, Jr., has changed his address, which is j
care Cutler-Hammer Electrical Manufacturers Compar
970 Folsom Street, San Francisco, California.

PreL Rivers is in his third year of Life Insuill
His offices are 1388 Starks Building, Louisville, Ke
tucky. He had a fine record with his swimming last ye
winning ten medals and cups. However, he afterwar
had an operation for sinus which will keep him out oft
water for a year. q

CLaupE LaVarre is in charge of three eastern pi
vinces in Cuba for the Singer Sewing Machine Compat
His address is Singer Sewing Machine Company, ‘a
ado 194, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba.

1935 q

Britt TRustow is married and has a small daug at
He is working for the local gas utility, United Fuel, 4
Charleston, West Virginia. His address is Box -
Charleston, West Virginia. 3

JouHn Spowr is with the Texas Company and ham
cently had a promotion which prevented his being ht
for Finals. His address is 77 Fairmount Avenue, Ch
ham, New Jersey. 1

Henry Ravenuorst is still living in Lexington. I E
address is 523 South Main Street. q

1936
Pau Hervey is living in Maybank, Texas.

Tuomas L,, Grove is practicing medicine in Huntit
ton, West Virginia. He says he has two sons and expe
them to be Washington and Lee gentlemen. 3

Joun H. RENKEN, Jr., is an Auditor for the Ta
ers Insurance Company, working out of New York. J
address is Monsey, New York. 4

Forest HurrMANn was married October 13, 1938,
Lee Chapel. He has been associated with the Aetna 4
Insurance Company since leaving school. The compé

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—— i

yperates its West Virginia agency in Charleston, West
. ia, 1020 Kanawha Valley Building.

Virgil

1937

SraNLEY HiccINs is practicing law in Fayetteville,
West V irginia, with the firm of Mahan, Bacon & White.

1. M. Scorr is with the Lee I. Robinson Hosiery
\fill, Inc., 23rd Street, and Alleghany Avenue, Phila-

delphia, Pennsylvania.

Dick Brooks has opened law offices in Front Royal,
Warren County, Virginia.

1938

Artiur ALEXANDER is connected with the Philip
Morris Company. His address is 119 Fifth Avenue, New

York City.
Prick BERRYMAN is connected with the Home Lum-
her and Supply Company in Fredonia, Kansas.

Artuur Bick completed his work at Seabury-West-
ern Seminary this spring and was ordained a deacon in
Episcopal Church on June 9th. He expects to be at a
church in the Diocese of Springfield, Illinois.

PHARLES Bi CrarK,; Wiibism Hituimer, GERALD
LivELy, and Gkorck Witson are studying law at the
University of Michigan.

Herpsert C. CLENDENING has completed his third year
at the United States Military Academy. He is standing
thirty-seventh in a large class and hopes to get into the
Engineers’ Corps upon graduation.

1959

ALLEN Snyper, Class Agent for 1939-A, is in the
Law School at Washington and Lee. He was president of
this year’s student body.

Bos Gururis, last spring, completed three years of
training in the mills of the Carpenter Steel Company, and
Was with the same company as a salesman. He gave his
address as P.O. Box 116, Roselee, New Jersey.

Crartir Harr writes from 1160 Cromwell Avenue,

New York. He sees many Washington and Lee boys in
the city,

Evernrr O, Amis had been with the Editorial Depart-
ment of the Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tennessee,
lor eighteen months when his letter was written in April.

At that time he had a yen to go to Europe “immediately
atter the war.”

In Memoriam
1902

GRIER Ratston SmILey,chief engineer for the Louis-
ville and Nashville Railway and nationally known author-
ity on railroad construction, died on June 3 in a Miami
Beach hospital. He had been taken there this spring from
his winter home in Key West. He had been in declining
health for a year.

Mr. Smiley’s classmates will remember him as an out-
standing athlete of his day, as a member of the varsity
crew and as a football player.

His earliest success was in the construction of the
extension of the Florida East Coast Railway to Key
West, on which job he pioneered in railroad bridge con-
struction.

He was first employed by the L. & N. in 1913 as resi-
dent engineer. In 1920 he was made chief engineer of
construction, and eleven years later, assistant chief engt-
neer. He had been chief engineer since 1933.

He is survived by his widow, a daughter, a brother,
and a sister.

1916

Ropert Mircuecy Curis, Jr., treasurer and auditor
of the Times-World corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, died
suddenly, July 21st. Death was attributed to a heart attack.

Mr. Curtis was graduated from the law school in
1916. He was a member of the track team and Omicron
Delta Kappa and Editor of the Ring-tum Phi while in
college.

Mr. Curtis started with the Times-World corporation
in 1922 as secretary to J. B. Fishburn and J. P. Fishburn,
after serving as bookkeeper for the Waynick Cadillac
company for several years. Later he transferred to the
business office where he was associated with the late
W. E.. Thomas, then business manager. About eight years
ago he was made treasurer and auditor.

£931

Crirron H. McMILvan died April 29 from the effects
of poison accidentally swallowed at the home of his bro-
ther, John McMillan of Ladue, Missouri. The poison was
a deadly weed-killer kept in a soda-water bottle, and Mr.
McMillan took a swallow, believing it to be soda.

At the time of his death, McMillan was president of
the Busy Bee Candy Company of St. Louis. After gradu-
ation here, he was employed by the D’Arcy Advertising
Company for six years. In 1936 he became a director of
the candy company and in 1937 a salesman for the firm.
He was made president in 1939.

Surviving, in addition to his widow and brother, are a
son three years old, an infant daughter, and his mother.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Oscar Caperton Huttman, 1876-194]

OLLOWING.the death of Oscar C. Huffman, 1898, on
F May 5th of this year it could be fittingly said by
Washington and Lee men, “Though we regret that he was
allowed to serve the University for so little time, we are
thankful to have had the benefit of his services for even
so short a period.” Or in the
words of President Gaines it
might be added: “The Uni-
versity has lost one of its
most distinguished alumni
and one of its ablest and
most devoted officials.

“In the business world,
he attained, by his own ef-
forts and character, a posi-
tion of the first magnitude,
and throughout a long and
active career he exemplified
the finest. ideals for which
the college could hope.”

Oscar Caperton Huff-
man was born on September
16, 1876, in Augusta Coun-

Virginia, near Staunton,
and it is said that his first
job was in the latter city,
working on a milk wagon at
fifty cents.a week. His edu-
cation, before he came here
to college was received in the
public schools of Staunton.

It 1s true that Mr. Huff-
man was at Washington and
Lee as a student for only a
very brief period (1896-1897),
but men like Mr. Huffman,
when they have their way to make in the world as
he did, often cannot find time to complete a college edu-
cation. Yet, in his brief period of college study, this fu-
ture trustee seems to have imbibed the spirit of his alma
mater more deeply and to have conceived a love for it
stronger than many who have stayed longer.

Leaving Washington and Lee, Huffman took his first
teal }0b,: as,.Secretary..to. the Mate Reverend Henry St.
George Tucker. Then, in 1903 in the town of Buchanan,
Virginia, which had become his home, he organized and
became a president of the Virginia Can Company. He re-
mained as head of this concern until 1908 when he en-

 

| 28 |

 

The late Oscar C. Huffman, 1898

    
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
   
    
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  

larged his activities by founding the United States @%
Company in Cincinnati. In 1916, this latter company wa
merged with the Continental Can Company, of which
Huffman became president in 1930. He resigned thi
position in 1940 to become head of the executive com
mittee, and at the time of hy
death he was still a membe
of the board of directors,

During the first wo
war, he was called to sepy
on the War Industries Boar
as an executive in the 0 |
nance department.

His election to the B
of Trustees of Washin
and Lee University cam
1938, three years after
University had awarded h
the honorary degree of De
tor of Commercial Seien
His service on the board }
been described as moc
and unobtrustive, but ‘
and constructive always. |
chairman of the commit
on finance, he found —
problem too big to tackle
no minor detail too small
his thorough considerati

Mr. Huffman died at t
Savoy Plaza Hotel in Ne
York City. In his later yeat
like so many other im
tant American business
ecutives, he had become m
or less identified with
he owned a large estate in New Cami
Connecticut, where he indulged in his hobby of farmin
and he was a member of such clubs in New York as tl
University Club and the Union League. He also ownet
place in Cincinnati and was partly identified with the li
of that city. But always, as is shown by the fact that
was buried in Buchanan, his real home was there in
small Virginia town which he never forgot and to wil
he gave generously, particularly a community cent
which was dedicated in 1938. There, as at Washing (
and Lee, he will be sorely missed. He is survived by #
widow, two children, two brothers and five sisters.

metropolis :

 

 

 

