1

  

BN dian i oe a ee
ote ? a8 Si te Wi oS te geet %
Pe See RR es POE” pele

ae

¥;

 

Magazine

]

 

 

 

 

 

 

on
6
2
S
2)
oO
:
S
eo)
i>
A=
-
©
=

 

PRB sedis OR Ra Bl, OI OE ET a ea tell

vir 7 ® pai > 4 s < >
+ Mine” : ikea

~ 4 -— 7 Sal gregh r.
; <r * oo oe hem) ok TP he

a i. yn = o ol. es
5 pi ig te eae

> cues 1. PEE Fatal ;

Alumn

 

y. ~ i & —

~ - ,

a
PNA

Qo.

aA
a
a

| Lose
: ee

_ —
ag
7 :

eo Oy

 

 

 

a
Appalachian
G

- W. Summerson, Bristol, Va.
s
nes H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
Georgia ee
Ata M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
‘more, Maryland
Dee atimer G. Young, 2906 Guilford Avenue
Birmingham, Alabama
John F. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
ral Kentucky
oa Arnold, Lexington —
leston, West Virginia he
ae Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee
Cc. R. Avery,
icago, Illinois
Chicag” Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
incinnati, Ohio
— Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street
Charlotte, North Carolina
John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
veland, Ohio
ee, Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
Carl V. Harris
umberland Valley
C Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan ,
Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’l Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
Cc. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Memphis, Tennessee
L. V. Butler, 60 S. Front Street
New York, New York
Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas
John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia
E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont
_ A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
_A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Roanoke, Virginia
E. H, Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State
George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.
Charles F. Suter, Union Trust Building
aynesboro, Virginia
Harry A. Lough

 

eee:

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
Eentered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Judge Carleton Jewett, 1500 West 41st St.

 

Vol. XVIII MAY-JULY, 1943 Nos. 4-5
POON 85, cicsgnk: *Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917
Managing Edttor. .2c022000 bic Mary Barclay

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PTESAONE A, ns.) ei Sask. RocEr J. BEAR, 1914
RACV OROPY .5. 0085, *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Joun L. Crist, 1913

RicHARD T. Epwarps, 1933
RoseErRtT P. Horson, 1914
Ki Wixtiams, 1915
Joun W. DryeE, 1920

ae
Contents for May-July, 1943

PAGE
Praise and Petition (The President’s Page).................. 3
The One Hundred and Ninety-Fourth Finals................ 4
Additions to List of Alumni in Service ......0.....000000000..... 5
Capaae em Srias: FUG MOP ale ii is. dak een eo Wn. 7
The Glee Club Made Its Annual Trip......0............ entice 8
A Student's Review of the: Year). 22.0.5 24.0.00..c..8.0..00008. 9
Casualties of Alumni in Service.......0........0...cccccsececceeeee. 12
Saseball Team Moderately Successful........00..000000.000.002.. 13
The Army School for Special Service........0..0..000.00000000005. 15
Alumni Fund as of May’ 27,1943 ..cic00.c.ccisccsscessccsssschiee. 18
Minutes of General Alumni Meeting.........0.....00.0.00000..... 19
A Message From Your Alumni President..................... 20
CASS NOCCB a5 5i i. sccomtesiegc. us Sa veh oc 21

* On leave of absence for the duration.

——

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Praise and Petition

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

x THE CLOUDS that hang rather thickly upon the whole

horizon of this institution there is one radiantly bright
spot. This is the response of our alumni to the annual
appeal of this year.

For this response I wish to extend the sincerest thanks
of my heart. These thanks go out to the Class Agents who
assumed a difficult job and did it with great patience and
great intelligence. The thanks go also to every alumnus
who in the midst of these troubled moments remembered
generously and sympathetically his Alma Mater.

aR Sa

When the final reports are made public, it will be ob-
served that last year’s class, the boys who graduated in
1942, made an amazing showing. Most of these boys are
now in service, and probably few of them will read these
scattered paragraphs. But Washington and Lee is grate-
ful to them.

[ am saying what everybody knows when I suggest
that the University is the type of school that will have
more years of the heavy problem. Not only for the dura-
tion of this war, but for the period of reconstruction, the
college of arts and sciences, exclusively for men, must
struggle. There will probably be a sustained interest in
military education, a sustained interest in technical edu-
cation, and what we know as liberal arts education must
present more strongly than ever its claim to the American
public.

Somebody has said that one of the greatest victories
our enemies could win would be to blast out of American
life the liberal arts education; for with full admiration
for the competence and the contribution made by the
technical phases of learning, we all know that the liberal
arts education develops the personality for leadership,
and cherishes the vigor of free discussion which protects

liberty.
oes

For the moment the University has rented certain of
its buildings to the Army School for Special Service, a
self-contained and separate institution operating on our
campus. We have been given tentative approval for an
undergraduate unit of young soldiers who are deemed by
the Government capable of further college training. We
shall have a small body of our regular students. Unless
things change for the worse, we shall survive during the
period of the war. But the greatness of the trust vested
in us, the trust that includes Washington’s faith and Lee’s
life, challenges us to a full restoration of the potential of
service respresented on this campus. To this end we make
a petition to our alumni, that they shall help sustain us in
the dark days, and that they lend every influence to estab-
lish anew the place of Washington and Lee in the critical
years ahead of us, years when the genius of this institu-
tion will be needed as perhaps never before.

Foe Kota a

President

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The One Hundred Ninety-Fourth Final

Ve over half of the degrees being awarded in ab-
sentia to boys in the armed services the 194th com-
mencement took on a very somber aspect. Some of the
boys were there in uniform but where the others were is
not known.

President Gaines told the assembled graduates that
“the final test of an educated man is his ability to discover
an idea and to be faithful to that ideal.” He strongly
stressed the importance of duty.

Robert Francis Johnson of Bedford, Virginia, de-
livered the valedictory address and used as his theme
“Vision.” William Stilwell Wilcox was originally voted
valedictorian but he was called to the armed services just
a short time before Commencement.

Four honorary degrees were awarded. Brigadier Gen-
eral Frederick H. Osborn, head of the army’s Special
Service Division, was awarded the degree of LL.D. Three
alumni also received honorary degrees. They were: Gay-
lord Joseph Stone, of Fort Worth, Texas, class of 1915,
Doctor of Commercial Science ; Lloyd Rutherford Craig-
hill, class of 1912, Episcopal Bishop in China, and now a
prisoner of the Japanese, Doctor of Divinity ; and George
R. Hunt, Lexington, Kentucky, class of 1895, Doctor of
Laws.

Scholarships and awards were distributed as follows:

ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIPS

Mapleson Scholarship: Robert Francis Johnson, Vir-
ginia, and William Stilwell Wilcox, Georgia; James J.
White Scholarship (Greek) : John Bostwick Holley, New
Hampshire; Mary Louisa Reid White Scholarship
(Chemistry) : Roy Jackson Fahl, Jr., Pennsylvania ; Tay-
lor Scholarship (Mathematics): I. V. Runyan, ‘Tennes-
see; John H. Hamilton Scholarship (Greek) : William
Lawrence Garvin, Ohio; Young Scholarship ( Philos-
ophy) : Joseph Humphries Magee, Virginia.

DEPARTMENTAL SCHOLARSHIPS

Economics: Robert Bruce Quayle, New York; Com-
merce: Paul Bolton Shamhart, Jr., New York; Biology:
Charles Lewis Rast, Jr., South Carolina; Physics: Rod-
ney Mims Cook, Georgia; Physical Education: William
Wallace Dutton, Maryland; Political Science: Francis
William Lowry, Florida; History: Robert Sidney Irons,
District of Columbia; Education and Psychology: James
Frederick Berry, Virginia; Latin: William Jean Pierre
Byrne, Virgina; Geology: Abe Leon Cahn, Mississippi;

[4]

   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   

Journalism: Earle Palmer Brown, New York; Spanish;
John Lawrence Barrett, Washington; French: Walter
Benjamin Van Gelder, District of Columbia; English
Frederic Russell Doane Williams, New York; Account
ing: John Woodward Roe, Michigan; German: Robe
Oscar Crockett, Virginia.

PrIzES AND AWARDS

Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion: Corneal Bern
ard Myers, Jr., Virginia, and William Joseph Noona
Jr., Florida; Individual Intramural Trophy: Willia
Robert Gaines, Virginia; Intramural Team Champio
ship: Delta Tau Delta Fraternity; Lin Prize in Chemis
try: John Webster McGehee, Jr., North Carolina; J. G
Herndon Prize for best Student Library: John Crai
Kammerer, New Jersey, and Haven Winslow Mankir
Maryland; Robinson Award in English Literature, His
tory and Social Sciences: Robert Francis Johnson, Vir
ginia; Robinson Award in Languages : Carlyle Westbroe
Barritt, Pennsylvania; Robinson Award in Mathematie
and Science: William Stilwell Wilcox, Georgia; T
George A. Mahan Prizes for Creative Writing—Sophe
mores: Robert Sidney Irons, District of Columbia, an
Omer Thomas Kaylor, Jr., Maryland; and Junior: Jame
Douglas McLean, Jr., South Carolina.

Degrees awarded were as follows:

BACHELOR OF LAWS

John William Brammer, Virginia; Paul Gust Ganas
Virginia; Macon Melville Long, Jr., Virginia; Charle
Terrence Wilson, Ohio.

BACHELOR OF ARTS

Charles Cyrus Adams, Maryland; Frederick Milte
Allen, Wisconsin; Carlyle Westbrook Barritt, Pennsyl
vania; Richard Emanuel Basile, New York; Calho
Bond, Maryland ; Robert Bidwell Brainard, Jr., Connectt
cut; Bates William Bryan, Tennessee ; Theodore Robe
Ciesla, New Jersey; Henry Bowen Crockett, Virginia
Albert Darius Darby, Jr., West Virginia; Thomas Mo
gan Dodd, New Jersey; Eastham Waller Dudley, Vi
ginia; Beverly Thomas Fitzpatrick, Virginia; Williat
Cabrillo Hamilton, Maryland; John Bruce Handy, Jt
District of Columbia; Robert Francis Johnson, Virginié
John Craig Kammerer, New Jersey; Harry Clyde Kellet
Maryland; Houston Magill Kimbrough, Washingtot
(Continued on page 17)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of May 25, 1943

Nore: This list of 208 alumni in service comprises
the fifth published addition to the list of Washington and
ee men in service, published in the May, 1942, Magazine.
Washington and Lee now has 1879 men listed in the
armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or other address from which mail will be for-
warded, special activities, type of service or training, etc.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possible
with our alumni in this time of stress, and any informa-
tion concerning alumni in service wll be greatly appreci-
ated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
as follows: A, Army of the United States; AAF, Army
Air Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air
Corps; MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
American Field Service; MMS, United States Merchant
Marine Service. An asterisk (*) following the above
symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

es, Charies Cyttis, "44 wisnclacdsiesindandeipdabivwnsieee N
memon, Edward Brtiet:'45;.inciiissacispatancoseaseualon AAF
meender, Arthur ‘itenty, "See ini nicssna eae ee A
merson, Edward Bart 4S sisciisscsdivasshsnsnccncccstt eos AAF
fee, William Clyde; Jet; "42i5iiuciieanitisnnkeorpe eaten ‘i
Semews, Charles: Jarnes, °3F Adciicssseassdsectals dete staan AFS
Mee Maurice Jomedy aks: isdiesats siteshetscas suscacmcadabeeeratiaicne N*
ee, John Baxters $645: cte eee ene AAF
ee, ELerbert’ MGewit, °45s.sisccccceniecdisiccsckscchescassaptosecebcopstdad AAF
eee Paul, Jess Maile orishas hc. le iicccoeee A
Barnard, Bruce McCheane, Jr, ’44....ccccccccscssssssesssssssssessssssssssssees A
Remmrwve, Albert Js, "A2u cisslesteasociticeceria stcscessOeanrcdoscceseacsisttce AAF
Bartlett, Roy ‘FG ee eicencr tea ictdacctecel cnnesbegassebaccnmiomettetobels A
Mmile, Richard Emanuel, °43.ics<scccoccocsesccccceseccosceccocsceotseccedetsocnsece N
Basile, Robert ee ee ae Neel a dh eei al Rats N*
Baur, Andrew Herman, fake a ern ae AAF
Re Joe Frank, ’$8..s:2Acbisitiienn scdniaine aces Mckleae? N*
MmeBrank Rosebrd; °49::sciihscsnoocccuskcle tissues NAC

Sen, J Carn Lei cist ik cancrisics dials oleetehes cla iacetadonobnsaiedodbasions A
Bimmer, Robert Norris: “AGsscosicscsscssschercovsoctsecsestoshanlovcseshbossedossal AAF
Berry, Thornton “Grmeev alte 90s BG saat ahah sdistocreseaksetsoees N*
Bevins, Lee A Peseta ce tee. gaan a tae AAF
Block, Irving Rowen (Bee i ee Ae ee MC*
Boatwright, RODS BEC CULIION, | Paes relics coscdactstcticocssecssemcceccebts A*

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

POSTED, COGS a EUAN, wh ica dnchsteticccvisoudckcccéicoddscecesbecsccessees AAF
ESPatey, FGVMest Bea) SG ssssstassaavisssdsccicscevcddepsvisecivecocvécvicccctescctanecte A*
BFarhiam, Gnas les: TOG WAS, Le sikcsstndovssccduch eveserceteccséscoascestes AAF*
errata. PTO: Fase Ce tiiiciceidedbuistetvainkiehvdstsdédbasacbare AAF
Britton, Alan Bechiwotlas "42 csi cccisiiccscdhcctadedecasiersetectcsndctlints AFS
Brockman, Edward .-Wison, Joss "42:2. .Tcissdeccstendevcdanverovtesetiatscasen A
Brodercs, Chartes - WV iiitaarn, “44a loivscccteivciloctdscasidceotnaccat tiie N*
BIOMey;: RICHACG * JOM s "AG sscisivesse-tewcbdsdecdicihcheisccdaisetbesvageatoden as A
Browder, Walter eens.’ 4 oiiicaiviecssiscchscctbisevedvwhtcisvas ts heisesces A
POOWEs -LiCOEOR A: PEG Bec cisuticsnnndddiadistinseavenrecs ccavebedocceuseciasvden A*
Byrer, Frederick Ott, °43............ccccccsssseee és A
ESR AAG SCRE = TPOHIIMO  /4Gi.,3000snseibs cacdcncucocrvcnscssocedrusheaseconsesobel N
Campbell, John Cadwell Wingfield, °43...........cc ce eeeceeeeeeeeeees N*
Cariton;:-Walter: Cavill, Jr. "40 sivssscccccccccccoscsedecinssabsccosonsonsets AAF
Chase, Edwin DuBois, Jr., °42....... pein ee ek eee AAF
Chirietiags Charles: T9eicia. Fi. SA inssscsabccocsicduscctssnccesdvodoadeses AAF
Churchwell, John. Hamipilton, °45.0...c.5.c0sc.cccvcsccccstoscsctecscccnce AAF
Crile. TOONS FACE he Bbc iesccccvanceecevcecéccdactidbccnscieucsusdverbocbouneh N
Clayton; Beteae: Cher BF iis iis civeceaiciscceisticccsecvcsscsbecéestsnebsesens N*
COLO 5’ FOR SMR: a isin vivdecn sods oy depembavcodnasdivednsedudentcésevenodins AAF
Oe ns ciumsducsel N*
TIRE, EE: RI Ie RIK cee vii pusnccdeabitinaiigions odcucnbedtunsercosesvousscuoaanenns A
Cea ae SFr Ore ee nmonegsthobeciarsttns A
Cem Oe Re EE BESO 5 AE cae teh esta bietanichscstnasbeles<cacsidstdabiawvtedend A
CECE, SSRTIGD- PLCCOTIGN, ~ FesctasshidesnonsnBicpeincscubeetshacsnosctdredileceicdld A
Ie eC es ~ Wiis AL elect da tecetbnsak ad, ecnedniccikaveentovbeal A
aI res OI I te asd ee A
fet re gl eee ae Sb a | a BS CORRS Ra oe Spree ones mull Cet A*
Cries Mreernirmr arms. Om OG g oo tee ee a oe A
MIRREN ee AAF*
EROS, Fe FEI | OF inci usck sassninacleas Cckdatmacnchieseescastsncchasenae N
EP AER, ons cL Adi ci acch shepedebsewsicbobe Sian ileee nel A
GAS, > DERI DSTI, 9 ig), TRO ccd icncocsisicnstinmedccdudianannin A
Ta ir RN ITS Te a ae eee N
Ee Ce I PBs, cian cid digas tcpadataseksas ocdisbarsbtaseual N
RN SE Sea GNE eT OUNEIN, | Sis paki oss cbs die dasuvhn odndbdeocsodcocchamiotcbtedoiees A
rR. Tn Rh AR eo cc ccocnstiiosiesianie N*
Sey SSRN BORE 9B sia cs hesaiid Tdkedwabavasceasbeosbencockecasalie Gal A
FAERIE 8 og FE og eda scecpvepnceckessd cee : N
NINE Ste ONS UNAS SE ko, sh dba idedbcbeceddbandocsbocdoocesseudbedtaciohinnn A
Pe ee ae N
ee ini gee. a scactacepscnasesdoconanvanaesdle A
Faison, George Washington, III, ’41..02..............ccccsssscccssseees AAF
Ge eee NI eds Weve icabecedaccdeonstedndbscsnctcbaasaduddbicbes N*
Farmer, Leslie Sharpe, ’32.............. ‘i ssa A
Gee. PE: MANGE, F858 sesitecinetds nirvana A
Migwatt. “Femees memes 18 "45. ...:. sccccucsussadkecuarseceanceenlnriens AAF
Pusey, LIGRICL - iO ANA sc ncccntis nccceabicbinindicnselipabioe AAF*
aT Ge, . FOUN 5 Oi Saikiths didih cath bnccsadshisncenksa dian’ Galec as ae, AAF
Fittipoldt, ‘\Wiusant : VICGIE; .” Ac cosecsecccccdacibtinesdalieiiip vssvecadpundbevsvsie A*
Garwves, RODEFE E,8 WEERCE: "SS cccccocvesachdndaadscatiaiadeesaivintesecccectuns A
Gilman, James Pryor, ’44.......... nn eet A*
Godtreyv.. Jamies: Fi rvite, 200)... ticakaaseeastenlbdtanleatictstevevecence A
Goff, Cittford: Newell. Tei. "SB s..ds.uueiaateessbaieitaseedkiasins0. AAF*
Gorse les,. “FORM,  “5..i..:ccsissscenentdgncamentaghiaenablaeieemae tea tssdssstiaeses AAF
Good: George “Wis “ZScicti Adc tdetnns ; N*
Grabill.: Piutlin: : bi eerrsatiee 2” aie i, cscs eaeaethsehdtelts seactsochagaaeoyeostectes A
Graham, Samuel’ Jolie, 30.250 .cciciie aetbtatattehsccvehctsingresevedvinies AAF
Gremersonh, mere Tiiig! eric victieccietiietiioie is ei prvcigeciecscesectbsnse N*

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name and Class Branch of Service
Cine FaCne. Pact citincatccites AAF*
Perey ROO TL SORA Tid witapcctaisces dieinhacendnleihcconiucoscnsitediila AAF*
Handy, John Bruce, °43 oe N
FROST IG RO Fits A esd benshcstascth icenbnicdctennodcn AAF
Hawks, Hinman Brown, °43............::cc000 A
Henry, James Taylor, ’29.............0 : A
Hillock, Donald MacLean, °46.............. NAC
Hinton, William Miller, ’29................. A*
Hite, Robert Atkinson, °44.........cccccosccccccccceee AAF
PL Gls tate. PRIS PAID OEE, “aescccescncncostec cncsasenne N*
Hooks, Charles Guy, Jr., ’41................ A*
Hopkins, John Calvin, IV, ’40.... A*
PR Otte Fait 288 li ek ele ee ae MMS
Hovermale, Kenneth Wallace, ’45..... AAF
Hughes, Hugh Robert, °43 A*
Hughes, Mathew Crockett, Jr., °32 2
Ingham, Russell Wrigley, °45....... AAF
Ignico, Vincent Anthony, °43 A
Isenberg, Sidney, 742.......cccccccsses a A*
Jame VASA Dir R Rn EZ. is ssctisicsihchepesodeaengshidqceoutaberceee A*
Jesoon, Frederick Shea, ’26................ A
Jones, Henry Taylor, ’34............... in N*
Kadis, Bertrand Price, ’42 A*
Kaufman, Gene Ira, °43.... A
Keener, Bruce, III, °45 * N
Keller, Harry Clyde, °43... NAC
Keller, Ross Strawn, °45 A

 

 

Kibler, John T., °45... AAF
Kimbrough, David Terry, ’29 oN

 

 

College Registration Centers
for Service Men

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, especially those
who are in any of the armed forces, will be pleased to
know that the University has become actively affiliated
with the College Registration Service. A plan which
originated with a small group of alumni from various
colleges in January, 1943, is now being extended and ad-
ministered by the Association of American Colleges. A
director has been placed in charge who will give his full
time to the work.

Under the plan, “College Registration Centers” are
being established, preferably in a hotel, near camps and
training centers throughout the United States and abroad.
At these centers, Washington and Lee alumni who are
stationed in or live near the localities, are urged to regis-
ter so that they might find friends and assist each other
in spending their spare time more pleasantly.

The idea has been enthusiastically recewed by alumni
of many colleges who are helping in the establishment of
the centers. Publicity is being given in college publica-
tions, the public press, and in camp papers so that col-
lege men might take advantage of this opportunity to get
in touch with someone from their alma mater. It is hoped
and expected that Washington and Lee men throughout
the world will find the service centers a real aid.

[6]

Name and Class Branch of Se
Kimbrough, Houston Magill, °43................ccccsccssssscsssssssi

King, W. Courtney, Jr, (23 ..csiescscccccccccssscocccesosssocccssehcesn

 

Karic, Notris Styles, 25 .......:cccscscocssescssecsoveccsscovsosesescnsuen

Kohr, Paul Theodore, °43................
Kramer, Horace Zachary, °37.........

 

 

Lanier, John Thomas, Jr, °45........cccccesccccsscstsccesssocessnns nl
Lanier, Lloyd Addison, °45.........00..0.

 

LaPlante, James Gamelin, °43..........cccccccccesscoccsssccsccssesssun

F
tt eee

Lanier, Andrew Stephens, 742...............cccccccssccsscssososcccss ttn

  

Latimer, Erwin David, IIT,. °45.......ccccccccccccsccsccccoccscscssescenn '

Lau, Michael Willis, °42.......

 

 

Leake, Robert Sanders, 742......cccccccscsccccscccscccccccccccccccooccosel

Little, Herbert Lindsay, °40............ccccccccsccsscocccscccossscssesun
Lively, Gerald Marcellus, °38...............cs00+ ; z

 

 

 

 

Lovelace, Jack Campbell, ’31.......0...00.0..

DPOTS, FG WAE FAG y | BG site sees ccevscecesncvscsespencovessccvesenesvcunn \,

McCarty, James Raymond, 741 .........0.cc0ccccccccccccccocccscccns sn
McCausland, James Earle, °43...............cc0000

 

McFarlin, Robert Benjamin, '30.........ccccesesseeseeeseeesesseeenees TAC

EAN ENE, PUREE, Bile MO iciiivanicteieckonosnisonge

 

 

McMillan, John Henry, °42..........

McRitchie, Thomas Berry, Jr., ’26............. vessel

MacBride, John Baldwin, °42....0c...ccccccoccsccccsscccoosscccccocsscln

MacCorkle, Samuel Lyle,  740.........ccccccccoccccoccscsccccccoscossche

Mansel, Thomas Hammond, 746...................cccccccccscccsccossse

 

Mertins, Paul Stahl, Jr., ’29................
ME MRGS TON Te” Gils teachccaceshecnnitheutbags<

 

Millar, Hudson Colquhoun, Jr., °43...........ccccccccccccccoccooscsell 3

Miller, Edwin Henry, 740.................cccccccccsssees

 

Miller, John Baker, ’22................
Miller, Jobin: Maurice, Fig Sb cecsccicccccsisccesscccecdecseocssscacesau
Dee a Ra chi ca lies veh deeecee

 

 

Morison, Hugh Graham, ’°32...............

 

Morrison, Paul G., ere Me eRe aS Sie re socoeall

Seat A Bh SAR er oa St aan

 

 

Naccarato, James Joseph, °45
Caer, TRIOS FARGO FS ies scssivccccccsctcncincscecnscocciececaessee
O’Leary, Robert John, °45

 

Parmelee, Richard Otis, ’32
Pearson, Creed Judson, °41

 

 

Peeples, John Newton, °43
Penick, Daniel Allen, ’30

 

Perry, John Thomas, Jr., °41
Pettus, Reginald H., °42

 

 

Pogue, Robert Edwin, °46

 

 

Priest, George Warren, °43
Propst, James H., ’29

 

Quisenberry, James Austin, °45

 

Redmond, Lee R., Jr., 45

 

Rice, James Hormer, Jr., °37

 

 

Richards, William Vestal, °45.......
Richardson, Donald Leo, °43

 

Robinson, Landon Graves, *46

 

Rougvie, Robert Francis, °46............

 

Russell, David Dawson, °44

 

 

Russell, Francis Risdon, °43
Schept, Melvin Henry, °43

 

Selzer, Michael McDonald, °43

 

Sevier, William Kearney, °43
Shepard, Richard Hance, °43

 

 

Sherrard, John Carpenter, °43
Shields, James Struget, ’32

 

Shuford, Paul Mason, °43

 

Silverstein, Jay Armand, °43

 

Smalley, Raymond H., 44

 

 

Smith, Chadbourne Bryan, °45

 

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

————

me and Class Branch of Service
Tt, Ernest E dwatd: Ad cktcnssiciieiaseutadcsb naan A
oa h Gurdon Horton, "Bb cvissieiianticatsentceiscck icbbeceebcangaeteldead AAF
Smith, | Karl Middlekauff, °31.....ccccccccccsscsccosscccccccccgncoveresesesecvosoes N*
ath, Robert Ragsdale, ’33.........csccccsscsrecseccsrserscsssseccscsssoosceed A*
Smitherman, Robert: Bmereatl, We isitendccstsvcsvipispeictatcngd AAF
Stansfield, John Blicked,. "GAT i ieketgibtecide pes deci gunsvaheasebeteaeh ivan AAF
Steves; Marshall Terrell, '44.......cccsssssssssssssssssnsesssssenssnessncnens N
Stockton, Richard Burton, 46........ccc.ccccsscccccssccesssecssssessesesed AAF
Sutherland, James Stanley, LLL, "43... cccesessseeeeeeeseeeseneseneens N
Sweeney, Robert Neavling, '41....ccscccccccsccsccccssccccccssnssccnssesscsseeeeeed A
Talbott, William Randolph, .Jr., °43.......cecccscssessssscsseesereessoeed AAF
Tatum, John F. AM 5 Se ies esbi ate caaate lative eee NAC
Wacker, Kenneth Fl etary, 78 ivcig.cvtecssiinedécinjivece Acta tinsboilagesinphaniel A
Walker, James Carroll. 94S. c5cetanscicdpsaitinasteisincbecassquselbecvenshlecgi MC

Name and Class Branch of Service

 

 

 

Walker, Robert Clarice, "42.....cccasscssccccssssecsessnnsaantcalieueahaieaaanniaadied N*
Watleer,. Robert: G.,) 45 cissisciestsccsscisccccscssssoptincvnscdl aeuieaaaieeeans N
Webster. William Arthur, Jf, 743 .cciccscccsscccccsssceccsttshavanunnioes NAC
Wells. Edmond: Daniel,  J6-.,) ’4S.ccssces:.ccecocesesccbassossnspesbeceatalnal AAF
Wheeler, Roy Ly, "43.cccrcrcccscrdsscoscesccccescescccccesses N
Wherrette, William Carnes, °42...........00 MC
WIS: TOs: EErvitke, °26 iss ccecscorsttincsssesesceceecosnsbesesesvsenccaumeaaseian A*
Wickerham, George Baker, 738............cccccccccccscssccccscerssceseres AAF
Witeok, William Stilwell, 243.i..cccisesccesssesscvedsessodycctsescacsonseabea AAF
Wilhite, Philip Abney, Jr, ’42.........ccccccccscsccssseccscscsssscccscsessscess N*
Wilson, Edward Junkkin, °33..............cccccccccccccccccccccssssceseccssessees N*
Wolle, Alfred Lois, Jiri, “Rbesicscisscssccccccipvissssosessiscvssterecessonchaain’ A*
Wood, George Twyman, 744........cccccsccccsccscscccccccescocssseccccecrsesed AAF
Young, Latimer Gorsuch, 740..............sssssccssssscessserrrccessseseeeessved A*

 

OE

“Sunrise’

N past years Finals has been the last big time. It has
I meant cocktail parties, “College F riendships,” all-night
dances, beautiful dates. There were some genuine tears.
Seniors were in the spotlight. The curtain was falling on
their college careers. But there were three other classes
left to carry on, and there would be another to move in
the next Fall. Different is 1943.

Unlike anything in Washington and Lee history are
1943 Finals. Unlike other years, the graduating class is
under the 100 mark—last year there were 180. Some left
in January. Most seniors have already been called to the
service. Unlike other years, this is Finals, not only for
the seniors, but for 200 of us.

No words can describe the feeling that hangs over
Washington and Lee this May morning in 1943. There
are some who can look back upon these days as the hap-
piest of their lives. There are some who would like to stay
here forever. There are others who want to get into the
service immediately, who have been hoping their calls
would arrive any minute.

But the vast majority are confused. There is sentiment
about departing, and yet there is also a desire to fall in
line for the nation. Last year was transitional; this year
has been near-revolutionary.

But this is not the sunset for Washington and Lee.
Some things may die; many of us will. But some will re-
turn and there will be others to fill our shoes after the
war. And the things which Washington and Lee stands
lor and means—her traditions, customs and standards of
€xcellence—will exist forever.

; Few of us can see a future in our own lives now.
Nor can we see a future for Washington and Lee. But the
dawn will break—a brighter dawn too. We are being
Siven a chance to remold the world, to make it a better

‘— An Editorial

place. Washington and Lee has helped in teaching us how
to do it. Washington and Lee has given us more than
things out of books and a country club existence. It has
given us an intangible something which cannot be de-
scribed, an impelling sense of duty, a capacity for vision,
a will to make dreams come true,

We will move on—where we don’t know. Washington
and Lee will stand firm, the symbol of our faith. But from
it all will come a new hope, a new age. From it all those
things which have made Washington and Lee, and those
things which Washington and Lee has impressed upon us,
will appear again. Finals, 1943, is not the sunset; it is the
sunrise.

By Ep Jackson in The Ring-tum Phi.

 

Tue following poem was published recently on the
editorial page of The New York Times:

HISTORY

A little knowledge that the flint strike fire,

A little culture that the night be turned

From tom-toms, sorcery, primeval mire,

And then—ten thousand miles of book-shelves, burned.

ALBERT GALLATIN JENKINS, 1901

 

“T am sure you will agree that this common cause
brings us even closer together in the realization of the fact
that we are a part, small though it be, of retaining for
Washington and Lee all the good of the past and of
creating a new spirit and building new traditions for the
future. In this present call for intelligent leadership for
our University, and for our country, we will not fail.”

Jim Wixsourn, Class Agent for ’27-A

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Glee Club Made Its Annual Trip

By W. E. Crayton, 1944

LTHOUGH travel by automobile was impossible, the

Washington and Lee Glee Club made its annual trip
North this year. Climaxing a difficult but successful sea-
son, the trek to New York and Washington was the fifth
consecutive tour of the group above the Mason-Dixon
line.

Five years ago, the ambitious singing group was the
top college Glee Club in their region, as demonstrated in
the Fred Waring regional Contest, held in Washington.
In addition to the publicity and acclaim accorded the group
because of this victory, the organization received much
favorable comment as a result of a featured spot in the
stage program of Washington’s Earle Theatre. Since
then, the singers, under the direction of the Washington
and Lee English department’s Dr. John Varner, have
been yearly visitors to Manhattan. Last year they again
entered the Waring competition, and defeated all other
college entrants from the middle Atlantic region. One of
eight clubs in the final competition, they received an
amount of favorable publicity for showmanship and
artistry. In addition to contests and appearances before
Alumni chapters, the group has given concerts at many
of the larger Northern schools, as well as on professional
stages.

Although ranks had been thinned by numerous war
service calls throughout the year, twenty-three enthusias-
tic members of the choral group piled into the day-coaches
of the Norfolk and Western on April 28 for the trip
north. Their activities through the year had included con-
certs in Lee Chapel, Lexington, and at Hollins College,
and an appearance at Washington and Lee’s famous
Fancy Dress Ball.

The proposed New York trip became an actuality
when Roy J. Grimley, ’21, invited the group to sing at
the dance of the alumni of that city. Mr. Grimley, who
was master of ceremonies at the dance, arranged for the
entertainment of the club while in the city, and helped
Dr. Varner with many details of the trip. Held in the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, the dance featured music by a
Meyer-Davis orchestra and a fifteen minute broadcast
over station WHN. On this broadcast, the Glee Club
sang three numbers. Dr. George Bolling Lee, ’93, a grand-
son of General Robert EK. Lee, gave a brief address on
Washington and Lee and its part in the war. Also pres-
ent at the meeting was Thornton W. Allen, °13, author of

[8]

 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
   

“The Swing.” An enthusiastic supporter of the Glee Cly
Mr. Allen is also author of the marching song, ‘Sal
to the Generals.’ The Glee Club paid tribute to Mr. Affe
by singing his latest song, “Fly, Navy, Fly,” destined f¢
use by the Naval Air Corps. This was the first public pre
entation of the new number. .

While in the nation’s largest city, the Glee C]
visited the Fred Waring show. The members were guest
at his informal program, given after the regular Cheste
field radio presentation. Waring showed his interest
the Washington and Lee singing group by making f
quent references to them throughout the evening.

Saturday morning the organization entrained fe
Washington, where they were guests of that city. Ar
rangements for their entertainment were handled bh
Arthur Clarendon Smith, whose son is a graduate o
Washington and Lee. Frank Hinson, °42, and Pa
Brown, °42, a former president of the club, assisted i
the planning. Long a staunch friend of the University
Mr. Smith gave a party for the songsters in his ho
Saturday evening. The only public appearance of
group in Washington was Sunday morning. They sa
in the Cleveland Park Congregationalist Church. T.
Soong, president of the Bank of China, was present t
day, as well as many Washington and Lee alumni anc
their families.

Although hampered by loss of manpower, budget ré
quirements and the demands of a war-accelerated sched
ule, the fifth Glee Club trip was a great success. Markeeé
by informal concerts, the boys literally sang their way
from Lexington to New York and back again. The firs
“concert” of the trip was given in response to demands of
several sailors in a Pennsylvania Railroad coach headi
for Philadelphia. From a speeding train to the street out
side a Southern girls’ college, the group responded te
every request, and made friends for Washington and Lee
wherever they went.

On the way to Lexington on Monday, the Glee Club
made its final public appearance of the year during a two
hour wait for a bus in Staunton. The entire organization
in the street in front of Mary Baldwin College, sang
popular and semi-classical songs for more than an hour.
Although already “in bounds” for the night, the whole
student body of the girls’ school assembled on the lawt

(Continued on page 11)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

———

 

Lee Kenna, Bates Bryan, Bill Noonan—three student presidents in Washington and Lee’s hardest year

A Student's Review of the Year

By Ep JACKSON, 1944

o REVIEW the year 1942-43, including as it does the
ost tumultuous days Washington and Lee has ever
seen, when thinking and acting were warped by a peculiar,
yet natural war psychology, is next thing to the impos-
sible.

What World War II has done to every college, uni-
versity and individual in the country will be a story long
in the telling. What it did to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity—student body and school—in the last eight and
one-half months which began on a sunny morning in
September, 1942, is a tale that can be told in the one word,
“change.”

The changes, the turnovers, have been almost beyond
description. In eight months she has watched more than
two-thirds of her student enrollment leave for the armed
services. She has seen army officers move in as students
moved out. She has seen her athletics sliced in half—she
has abandoned intercollegiate competition for the dura-
tion.

Today she loses over 200 more men. Lexington and
Washington and Lee have been hermited by war and
gas shortages. Activities have been curtailed. The good
old days of the “convertible fleet,” and the trips to girls
schools have been short-circuited.

Certainly no ordinary year was this. Yet, despite the
three strikes against her, Washington and Lee clung to

what she means and stands for. Her students made exten-
sive plans to restore things to their pre-war plane when it
is all over. Her alumni were distinguishing themselves
on every front.

War II has changed many things about white-column-
ed Washington and Lee, but war, time, tide or no man
could shove overboard her traditions and her name.

Here is the story of eight months. We have seen
friends leave, friendships fail. We have not seen war yet,
but we are on our way.

Washington and Lee’s chief contribution to the war
effort has been manpower. This was a year when “re-
serves” was a campus by-word. Nearly the entire stu-
dent body was 1n some reserve.

Called first in February was the Army Enlisted Re-
serve corps—the AERC. Effect of the call was double:
it made students left behind buckle down, it left a tre-
mendous gap. There were 133 students in the group.

Two weeks later 52 more were called. This time it was
the Army Air Force Reserve. One month later came AD
orders for 22 Naval reserve V-7 seniors.

Throughout the entire term students were leaving
through Selective Service. Many flunked out. Fifty-two
were graduated in the first mid-year class in history, on
January 25. Fed up with college, many more just packed
their bags, climbed on the bus and went to war.

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

For students who were permitted to remain—Naval
and Marine reservists—this was disconcerting. The un-
certainty of 1942-43 can never be equaled in our lives. A
mass call threw students into a quandary. Calls came sud-
denly.

Otherwise, Washington and Lee and the war were
not so closely connected. Many of the school’s best fa-
cilities were turned over to the School for Special Service.
But there were no victory gardens, no after-hour jobs in
war plants, no special wartime courses in welding, navi-
gation or riveting. There were no bundles for blank clubs.
There were no concentrated war bond drives. Purchase
was left on an individual basis.

Most student body reserve funds were converted into
war bonds, to be held for the duration.

Other things that other colleges were doing, Wash-
ington and Lee was not. But most of these were impossi-
ble anyway. No blood donations could be arranged in
Lexington. There was no place for a victory garden. With
everyone going to war, preparation for defense work was
certainly unnecessary.

Blackest mark of all was the war stamps scandal. Be-
cause of reductions in almost everything, the Executive
Committee voted a rebate on campus tax subscriptions in
the form of war stamps. Next morning most of them
had been cashed in at the post office.

For 365 days the war had been far removed from Lex-
ington, Virginia. On December 7, 1942—one year after
Pearl Harbor—evidence that there was a war was drop-
ped at Lexington’s doorstep. Two army trucks were
parked between two convertibles, the old and the new.

On that date, in came the School for Special Service
from Fort George Meade, Maryland, the eighth class of
350 commissioned officers ranging in rank from colonel
to second lieutenant. Six weeks later came 14 WAACs,
and a number of coast guardsmen.

Unlike most other half-soldier half-student setups,
this one produced no friction, probably because the sol-
diers this time were older.

After five months the two go their own ways, almost
oblivious of the other.

The school has taken over the Dutch Inn, the base-
ment of the Student Union, and now the whole building,
the gym and at least one athletic field every afternoon,
Tucker Hall, numerous other classrooms.

Politics took a back seat, but the Executive Com-
mittee found itself up against its hardest task in his-
tory—keeping sinking organizations, funds and student
activities above water.

First president during the year was Kentucky Lee

[ 10 ]

    
 
   
    
    
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
  

Kenna, whose idealism drew sharp student criticism an¢
cries of “dictator.” Patriotic and urging students to fa]
in line with the war effort—especially in regard to
bonds—Kenna’s attempts to impose this idea on free
dom-loving Washington and Lee students failed.

But he did make students war concious, made they
think. His first term regime saw the beginning of post.
war planning.

Moving up from the vice-presidency was Chattanoogs
Bates Bryan in February. His tenure of office was sho
In that time all student reserve funds were frozen. An
agreement was reached with VMI whereby all students
of both schools could attend each other’s dances—onee
only a senior privilege—and post-war planning movye¢
forward. More dictorial than Kenna was Bryan, who lit
erally ‘“‘railroaded” through the VMI agreement and the
fund freezing. No one seemed to object, however. |

Next came Florida Bill Noonan, who stepped up from
the vice-presidency also. Passed during his reign was an
amendment which limited politics, took EC representa
tion from the law school and provided for a 7-man Execu-
tive Committee. Spring politics were dull—just what the
amendment backers had hoped for.

Confronted with a mammoth task and hindered by a
constant turnover in personnel and therefore composed
of many inexperienced men, the 1942-43 Executive Com-
mittee did an impressive job.

Post-war planning kept the EC on its toes throughout
the entire year. Farsighted and capable, the various com-
mittees made adequate provision for keeping finances and
activities, though dormant, stable for the duration and
especially under Kenna, effected much-needed wartime
savings in student activity expenditures.

Dances were greatly modified. Decorations were sim-
plified. All sets were on a pay-as-you-go basis. Number of
dates dwindled, but girls continued to make their way to
Lexington in response to every call.

The year led off with the informal Interfraternity
week-end and the Southern Collegians on October 17.
This dance was followed more than a month later, by
Bobby Byrne at Openings with KA Earl Alverson as set
president.

Then came three Kappa Sigma presidents—Bev Fitz-
patrick, Fancy Dress with its uniformed, American spirit
theme; Vernon Millsap, appointed Spring Set leader by
a Dance Board emergency ruling, when Cotillion Presi-
dent Leo Signaigo left school ; and John Hackney, elected
Finals president, when Jim Daves was called by the Navy.

Jack Teagarden played for Fancy Dress, Johnny Sat-
terfield for Springs. No sets lost money.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

———
All houseparties were closed. Week-end jaunts to
‘rls’ schools continued but were made increasingly more
py bus as the year progressed. How girls’ schools kept run-
: ig without the presence of Washington and Lee gentle-

nil . : ‘ ;
from Saturday noon to Sunday curfew is a little

men y
difficult to fathom.
Organizations had a busy year. Most of them like Pi

Alpha Nu, Lee Dinner Forum, White Friars, “13’’ Club,
Sigma, went on with their work on a reduced scale. Omi-
cron Delta Kappa sponsored a special Ring-tum Phi sup-
plement on the reserve programs, and a movement to get
students to remove hats before Lee Chapel. ODK and
Sigma held two initiations during the year, and each
broke precedent by tapping two sophomores.

Football was abolished for the duration in the middle
of the year. Washington and Lee was one of the first
schools to take the step. The basketball team, coached by
Ace Referee Gummy Proctor, did not make the confer-
ence tournament for the first time in ten years. The
wrestlers, coached by Co-Captains Sam Graham and Bud
Robb, both of whom left before the tournament, finished
down the ladder in the meet. The Archie Mathis touch,
present for 17 years, was gone.

The “biggest intramural program in history’ was
crippled because of student losses, and many fraternities
had difficulty getting enough men to form teams in the
latter stages.

On the shelf during 1942-43: golf, tennis, track, cross
country, swimming, the latter despite prospects of one of
the best teams ever.

All publications emerged on the black side of the
ledger, for it was a year marked by alert and shrewd
management. All lost staffs. The Ring-tum Phi had four
editors—Joe Ellis, Bill Talbott, Wally Clayton and Ed
Jackson; The Calyx had four business managers—Bud
Robb, Jim LaPlante, Lynch Christian and Al Darby ; The
Southern Collegian had two editors—Walt Browder and
Wally Clayton. Inexperienced men moved into key posi-
tions.

The year 1942-43 is one Washington and Lee will
never forget. Feelings of students watching their mates
shipped over en masse cannot be described. Everything
changed, everything was halved, quartered or ruled out
completely. Things which had mattered no longer did.

For eight and one-half months Washington and Lee
has seen the disillusioning, almost devastating effects of
World War II. She reeled, she staggered, but she kept
going. Indeed, the summer session and the regular ses-
sion will carry on with much reduced numbers. The
school of the Generals will hold the line until the time
comes to reoccupy all her rightful territory.

DeVane Made Federal Judge

Dozier A. DEVANE, LL.B.,
O8, has been appointed Feder-
al Judge of the State of Flori-
da. Judge DeVane was sworn
in at ceremonies in U. S. Dis-
trict Court on April 30th, be-
fore Federal Judge Louis
Strum of Jacksonville, in the
presence of a_ representative
group of the judiciary and the
bar of the State of Florida.

Dozier DeVane received the
degree of LL.B. from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1908. He
was a member of the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity. After
graduation he practiced law in ‘Tampa, Florida, and Wash-
ington D. C., holding many important legal positions such
as rate attorney, American Telephone and Telegraph
Company; general counsel, Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company, and associate companies. In 1933,
he became solicitor for the Federal Power Commission
in Washington, D. C., serving in this capacity until 1938;
legal adviser to Interstate and Foreign Commerce Com-
mission of the House of Representatives in drafting Title
II of the Public Utility Act of 1935, and the Natural Gas
Act. In 1938, he re-entered the private practice of law in
Orlando, Florida, as a member of the first of DeVane,
Andrews and Patterson.

 

 

Glee Club Made Annual Trip

(Continued from page 8)

and listened to the impromptu concert. With the cheers
and applause of the lovely listeners ringing in their ears,
the club members were finally forced to turn deaf ears to
the cries of “more,” and run for their bus.

The future of the Glee Club during the war period
is uncertain, and depends to a great extent upon the size
of the student body.

This much seems certain: as long as there is a group
of boys at Washington and Lee as interested in trained
singing as the past few student bodies have been, there
will be a Glee Club here. The war may restrict its ac-
tivities temporarily, but the organization has built up an
enviable reputation. Plans for the peace-time future are
now being made, and there is every reason to believe that
alumni groups all over the country will once again have a
chance to see the Glee Club from their University in
action.

[11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Casualties of Alumni in Service

By A. D. Darsy, Jr., 1943

LMost 45 per cent—12 out of 27—of the Washing-
A: and Lee alumni casualties in the present war
achieved some intercollegiate athletic prominence while
enrolled in the University. This is an unusual fact, con-
sidering that probably no more than 15 or 20 per cent of
the student body in normal years, participated in inter-
collegiate athletics.

High physical requirements in the various air corps
units may be a reason. A definite majority of the casual-
ties have been in either the Army or Naval Air Corps of
the Marine air arm of the Naval Air Corps.

Last of the 16 old students listed as officially dead was
William T. Delaplaine, III, member of the Class of °39
from Frederick, Maryland. A lieutenant in the Naval Air
Corps, he was killed April 27, in a plane crash at Oak-
land, California. In his final two years at Washington
and Lee he was on the track and cross country teams.

Three sports captains are among the casualties. They
are Carl Arenz, °37, wrestling captain; Bob Kemp, mat
leader in *39; and Bob Boyce, swimming captain in 41.
Arenz is missing in action and the other two are officially
dead.

Arenz, from Baltimore, was a lieutenant in the U. S.
Army. According to a War Department letter he has been
missing in action in the Phillipines, on Cebu, since May 7,
1942. A lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, Boyce became
the first alumnus to be killed, when he crashed at Orlando,
Florida, in April, 1942. Kemp, a radio operator on a
bomber in the Army Air Force, was killed “in the British
war area” sometime in 1942. He was the first alumnus

A check of the record of Archie Mathis’ 1937 South-
killed in action.
ern Conference wrestling champions, reveals an ironic
note. Only match lost that year was to Princeton, 24-6.
The winners for W&L, in that match were Arenz and
Kemp. The former was a Conference tournament win-
ner in his class for two years and Kemp was a title hold-
er the only year the tournament was held while he was
a varsity competitor.

Boyce placed in Southern Conference diving in both
of his last years at Washington and Lee. The Cincinnati
boy was also manager of the baseball team in 1941.

Football provides half of the athlete casualties. Sims
Truehart, ’41, a fine defensive end for the Generals and
a lieutenant in the Marine Corps Air Arm, was killed

  
 

recently in a plane crash in the South Pacific area while
acting to prevent possible aid to the enemy.

Jack Tucek, ‘45, captain of the 1941 frosh footbal]
team, has been officially listed as missing by the U. §.
Merchant Marine. The ship on which he was a crew
member went down in less than a minute when torpedoed
in the Atlantic.

Highest ranking officially dead alumnus is Jack Gil-
lespie, “40, who won his monogram as a guard on the
1939 General squad. A captain in the Marine Corps, he
was with the landing force at Guadalcanal on August 7,
1942. He was killed in November.

Parker Matthews, ‘41, a numeral winner in football
his frosh year here, and later a wrestling candidate, was
killed near Venice, Florida, when the medium bomber of
which he was pilot, crashed December 3, 1942.

The other two football men are presumably prisoners
of war. They are Lou Schultz, 40, and Cash Skarda, ’41,
Schultz was a freshman gridman, but didn’t get his num-
erals. Skarda received his numerals and was a candidate
for the varsity football team.

Schultz, a lieutenant in the U. S. Army, was an officer
in the Phillipine Infantry Scouts at the final surrender.
Skarda was with General Douglas MacArthur on Bataan
and Corregidor. Word from the War Department says
that they have information that he is a Jap prisoner. In
January he was moved to Formosa.

The other athlete casualties were both killed in plane
crashes. They are Jock A. R. Stewart, °39, of Indepen-
dence, Kansas, and Robert B. Secord, ’38, from Detroit.
The former was killed in a plane crash at Tampa, Florida,
September 18, 1942. Secord died in the crash of a four-
motored bomber at Medill, Oklahoma. Both were Army
Air Corps lieutenants.

Stewart was a monogram winner in lacrosse in both
1938 and 1939. Secord won his numerals on the same
freshman wrestling team with Arenz.

FE. Hugh Hulsey, ’39, presumably missing in Bataan,
was a sophomore baseball manager. William Dabney, *42-
Law, missing since last August, was an athlete at Lynch-
burg College before his transfer to law school at Wash-
ington and Lee. He was with the first contingent of
American fliers to land in England. He presumably is
missing from the raid on Dieppe.

(Continued on page 17)

[ 12 ]

 

—

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Baseball Team Moderately Successful

ASEBALL was the only sport Washington and Lee
B;: ynmsored this season and the blue nine had moderate
‘They won six while they dropped five to finish
500 mark. Several of the victories were sweet

success.
above the
ones though. Early in
the season Virginia
had us down 7-1 at the
end of the second but
by virtue of some
timely hitting and
grand relief pitching
by Freshman Nelson
Newer mb, we went on
to beat the Charlottes-
ville 15-8. We
met Virginia later in
the year but the return
game was rained out

nine

when we were leading
by a score of 1-0.
season

Twice this

unbeaten teams have
laid their record on
the line out on Wilson
Field, and twice they
went away rueing the
day they scheduled the
Generals. William and
Mary came in unde-
feated and holding a
10-8 decision on Cap’n
Dick Smith’s boys
‘arlier in the season.
The William and
Mary coach called the
game at the end of the
seventh as Washing-
ton and lee had scor-
ed 20 runs on 19 hits

while ace hurler Jay Cook had limited the Indians to two

runs,

Three days later “Cookie” toed the mound against
the University of North Carolina, unbeaten in collegiate
Competition and loser only to the talent-laden North Caro-
lina pre-flighters. The tarheels were billed as the best

By Earce P. Brown, 1944

 

cr af

7 ee Se ay, ;

R. A. (Cap’n Dick) Smith

—~

+

 

team in the South and had a big league scout traveling
with them. Jay Cook gave them one earned run but Wash-
ington and Lee errors made the contest tight. Washing-
ton and Lee went out ahead in the eighth and won 5-4.

The boys in blue
avenged another early
season defeat when
they took a weird ball
game from Virginia
Polytechnic — Institute
12-11. The game fea-
tured nine home runs,
five by Washington
ton and Lee batters
and just about every-
thing else imaginable.
Harry Harner hit two
round trippers and
Jim Wheater, Carl
Johnson, and Freddie
Vinson each got one.

Surprise of the sea-
was’ Freshman
Nelson Newcomb.
Cap'n Dick watched
him pitching batting
practice one day and
decided to give him a
test and start him
against Lynchburg so
Cook would be fresh
for the Virginia game.
Newcomb passed the
test — and how — he
shut out the Hornets
with one hit. When
Cook got knocked out
against Virginia he
went in and _ pitched

son

seven innings giving up one run and three hits. He pitched

a total of 16 innings and gave five hits until William

[13]

and Mary knocked him from the box in the first meeting
of the two teams. An attack of appendicitis put him in the
hospital for the remainder of the season.

This meant an added burden on Cook so Cap’n Dick

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

called Carl Johnson in from center field and used him
for relief and he did a swell job. Freshman Fred Vinson
was on third all season and played good ball, giving the
boys in blue an excellent lead-off man. Harry Baugher,
veteran shortstop turned in a good season. Three boys
contributed to the chores around second. They were:
Frank Dudley, Harry Harner, and Jack Crist. Bill Me-
Kelway was on first. Bill Van Buren, Carl Johnson and
Jack Roehl were in the outer gardens, and Jim Wheater
was behind the plate.

Star of the season was Jay Cook who, when he wasn’t
pitching, patrolled the outfield. Cook played every inning
of every game and hit at a cool .500 for the season. Harry
Harner hit over .400 and Jack Roehl and several others
were above the .300 mark. This is the first time in years
that the Generals have been blessed with a hitting team
but erractic fielding held the season’s record down.

 

Marriages
1925

WiLLi1AM CarroL_L MeEap, Captain, U. S. Marine
Corps Reserve, to Carol Reeves Taylor, March 9, 1943,
in Baltimore, Maryland.

1932

CoLLas GRANT Harris, Lieutenant, U. S. Army Air
Corps, to Julia Ann McSwain, on April 25, 1943, in
Sedalia, Missouri.

1936

REVEREND JAMES LIGON Prick, JR., to Ruth Gordon
Watts, on May 19, 1943, in Bryan, ‘Texas.

1939

JoHNn BENTLEY PEARSON, U. S. Naval Reserve, to
Jennie Belle Wallace, April 3, 1943, Pensacola, Florida.

1940

SAMUEL LYLE MaAcCorkte, Lieutenant, U. S. Navy,
to Charlotte Cummins, March 2, 1943, in Medford Ore-
gon.

Wittis MAnviLLeE BALL, II, Ensign, U. S. Naval
Reserve, to Nell Northcutt Gilbert, Saturday, April 3,
1943, in New York City.

1941

Rosert WILLIAM Gary, Jr., Aviation Cadet, U. S.

Army Air Corps, to Margaret Ann Brownrigg, April 11,
1943, in San Antonio, Texas.

[ 14 ]

     
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

RicHArD MippLeton HeErnvon, Lieutenant, U.
Army, to Frances Virginia Sterne, on April 4, 1943, Dj,
widdie, Virginia.

Hat Waucu SmMiru to Adelaide Morris Cooley, 9
May 8, 1943, in Washington, D. C.

1942

GROVER CLEVELAND BALDWIN, JR., Lieutenant, U. &
Army Air Corps, to Dale Bogart, May 22, 1943, in Dem.
ing, New Mexico.

GEORGE ARTHUR WOOLFENDEN, Corporal, U. §
Army, to Roberta Fulton Latture, March 23, 1943, jy
Lexington, Virginia.

BENTON CARUTHERS TOoLLEy, JR., Lieutenant, Army
Air Corps, to Margaret Shively Reutlinger, April 17
1943, in Chevy Chase, Maryland.

1943

Francis Rispon Russert to Hilah May Hinty
March 2, 1943, in Lexington, Virginia.

1944

W. Wooprow Wricut, Lieutenant, U. S. Army, te
Regina Wagner, on February 25, 1943, in Covington, Vir
ginia.

Gravely Takes Over New Job

JULIAN S. GRAVELY, chemist, metallurgist and, until
recently, consulting engineer for the Western Catridge
Company at Alton, IIl., has been elected president of the
Beryllium Corporation of Pennsylvania. Gravely, a ma-
jor in the army ordnance department during the last war
and a former chief engineer of the Winchester Repeat-
ing Arms Company, also will be general manager of all
operations of the company, which produces beryllium
and beryllium alloys at its plant in Temple. All the prod-
ucts are supplied for war purposes.

 

Gravely was graduated from Washington and Lee”
in 1908 and from Massachusetts Institute of Technology
in 1911. He has been assistant chemist at the Watertown,
New York, Arsenal, research chemist for the General
Electric Company, chief engineer of the A. C. Gilbert
Company, vice-president of the Bond Manufacturing
Company, research engineer for the Crown Cork and
Seal Company, manufacturing manager for the Crown
Cap Division of Continental Can Co., Inc., and consult-
ing engineer for the St. Louis Ordnance Plant.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

The Army School for Special Service

By Litvarp M.

uk 11th course of the Army School for Special Ser-
BD ice at Washington and Lee University began its ex-
ercises April 21, 1943. Its term was four weeks. The other
courses for Special Service at Lexington were for terms
of six weeks each, Colonel William H. Quarterman,
Field Artillery, United States Army, is the newly ap-
,ointed commandant of the Washington and Lee Army
School. There also have been some changes in the teach-
ing staff of the school for the third term.

Colonel Quarterman, 46, is an old army man. He has
heen in uniform since he was twelve years old. He was
horn in Winder, Georgia, August 5, 1896. The Colonel
received his first military training at Gordon Military
College, a Georgia preparatory school. “He knows his
stuff,” ““He’s got what it takes,’ “He is a swell guy,”
some of the student officers of the School for Special
Service say of Colonel Quarterman.

After leaving Gordon Military College, Colonel
Quarterman enrolled at the University of Georgia, where
he later procured his A.B. and LL.B. degrees. While a
student at the University of Georgia he participated in
many extra-curricular activities and won honors in his
college course. He was an outstanding debater. He was
a member of the Debating Council and the Interscholastic
debating team. Colonel Quarterman was a member of
Delta ‘T'au Delta social fraternity, a member of the Round
Table Group and president of Phi Kappa Literary society.
Colonel Quarterman earned his letter in track and he held
the office of president of his class. At the University of
Georgia, he was an officer in the Reserve Officers Train-
ing Corps. The School for Special Service head served in
the last World War. He entered the war as a second lieu-
tenant, received a promotion to first lieutenant and was
a captain at the close of the war.

The writer of this article was most graciously ac-
corded an interview by Colonel Quarterman. He is en-
thusiastic about the work the School for Special Service
is carrying out and proud of the work of the faculty and
student body. Colonel Quarterman removed his coat dur-
ing the interview but was no less dignified. His politeness
and frankness immediately puts a stranger at ease.

When asked what were the functions of the School for
Special Service, he replied :

“The Special Service School trains officers for field
and combat service, and to staff the divisions of the army

AtLor, 1944

with Special Service Officers. The student body of the
School for Special Service is divided into two courses ;
basic and specialized.”’ Colonel Quarterman explained
that the teaching staff is also divided into four major de-
partments: Athletic and Recreation; Information and
Education; Technical Training; and Military Training
and ‘Tactics.

The Athletic and Recreation department trains of-
ficers to go into the field and keep enlisted men, during
lull periods, physically fit and to offer all forms of enter-
tainment possible to keep up their morale. The student
officers of the School for Special Service are taught to
organize athletic teams. They make up games that demand
the smallest amount of equipment, or that utilizes equip-
ment on hand. With this training they are able to cope
with conditions that actually prevail in various army
camps.

Students are taught the rules of various organized
sports and games, such as touch football and softball.
They make up the games in accordance with available
equipment. The Special Service Officer’s aim is to stimu-
late inter-company competition.

This department also conducts various forms of non-
athletic entertainment in the same manner. Men are taught
to make simple musical instruments from reed, boxes,
cans, and other scrap materials that may be found around
the camp. They are trained in bringing together talent
that may be in a camp and to put on plays, vaudeville
shows, and group singing.

In the division of information and education the stu-
dents are instructed in the techniques of providing in-
formation to troops and the matter of soldier education.
Under the direction of Special Service Officers are camp
publications, army newspapers, educational direction and
information of the background of participation by the
United States in the present war.

The School for Special Service has at its command
all the modern methods of directing enlisted men along
specialized educational lines. The student officers are in-
structed how to conduct their teaching by two methods,
that of direct teaching and group teaching. Enlisted men
are encouraged to complete their education through cor-
respondence courses. There are 74 universities in the
United States through which enlisted men may, through
correspondence courses, complete their educational work

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

toward a degree. Once the Special Service Officer has the
enlisted man started in his correspondence courses, the
officer will then act as director and adviser to the student.
There are often many lulls in combat fighting. During
such time the enlisted man may work on his correspon-
dence courses.

Directing officers have libraries of books and record-
ings, through the use of which they may conduct their
teaching. Records are used in teaching the student in
languages. If an enlisted man is serving abroad, it is the
duty of the Special Service Officer to teach the soldier to
speak and understand the language of the natives in the
vicinity of his command's location. It is here that the re-
cordings serve their best purpose. Emphasis is put on
teaching the student fundamentals of language and use of
the dialect. The School for Special Service teaches student
officers why the United States is in the war. The officer
in turn teaches the soldier and tells him the objectives
that the individual has to have in mind during his service
in the army.

“Yank,” the army camp paper which is released to
troops, both in the United States and abroad, is published
under the direction of the Special Service authorities.
Special Service Officers are trained in the techniques of
publications so that they may set up and operate camp
publications. The camp publications are handled by of-
ficers trained in this field by the Special Service Schools.

In the field of technical training student officers are
taught to tear down and reassemble many of the ma-
chines that are used in the army. This training is directed
by the Technical Training department of the School for
Special Service. The students are taught how to correct
the defects of technical equipment by replacing parts and
to repair defective parts.

Special Service men are trained in the fields of music,
telegraphy, and photography. They are taught how to
make musical instruments, to repair them, and to tune
them. They are schooled in the use of wireless equipment
and the camera.

In the realm of military training and tactics, map mak-
ing and map reading, field combat, maneuvers, and com-
bat tactics are taught by the Military Training and Tactics
department of the School for Special Service. Through
the use of maps and photographs officer students learn to
read the terrain of the particular territory in which a bat-
tle is to be fought. Maps and photographs which they use
reveal the structure of the terrain. ‘rom the maps they
can deciper the water faults and the distance that the
water table is beneath the soil. By knowing the rock
foundation of the terrain they determine if tanks and
other mechanized equipment may be used in a battle in

[ 16 ]

 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

the particular area under consideration. The maps sho
the possibilities of fox holes and dug-outs to be oz
structed, and the length of time that will be required ;
the construction of these.

Maps and photographs are important in showing ¢}
possibility of a region. Maps show roads and trails tha
are or may be conditioned for troop movements. Studer
officers, by studying the contours and the roads of—
region, may approximate the distance to a point and th
time that would be necessary to go from one point to an
other. Along this line, maps are important in planning
movements of two separate troops so that they may rea¢
a point of combat at a set time. Through the service 9
the Special Service Officers better team work in troo
movements may be attained. .

Special Service Officers are drilled in troop move
ments and are taught to reason out modes of battle whie
might be most efficient in a certain area. The preset
World War is different from the last in that there are
definite locations of battle fronts. It is necessary con
tinually to change the tactics of battle in order to meet th
different problems that different fronts offer in combe
from time to time.

Re-assignments in the staff of directors and teache
are among the changes that have been made in the’ 11th
course of the Army School for Special Service at Wash
ington and Lee, Colonel Quarterman said.

“A rotation system is used and officers are orderec
here to replace directors in order that new ideas may be
introduced for the training of the Special Service Officers.
It is desired that directors of the school be recognized ex-
perts in their fields,” the Colonel pointed out.

Although there are 81 enlisted men at the Washing
ton and Lee Army school, enlisted men are not permittec
to attend classes or take courses in the School for Special
Service. The enlisted men are at the school mainly to aic¢
officers who are taking courses in the school. The Special
Service School has taken over the Washington and Lee
dining hall and the freshman dormitories. Many of the
enlisted men are used in the technical work of the school.
Others, serve as assistants to directors of the school.

There are sixteen officers from the Woman’s Army
Auxiliary Corps taking courses in the School for Special
Service. The WAAC officers are taking the same courses
in classes with the men and are trained to do the same
type of work in their branch of the service that the men
are taught to administer to the army. The only difference
in the training of the officers of the WAAC is in the
department of athletics. A different athletic program 1s
followed by the women officers in accordance with the
WAAC physical training program.

y

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—_

There are a large number of well known men among
<() officers enrolled in the Washington and Lee

. 35
the «
S spool for Special Service. Among these are: Lt. Robert
'
Burns, former business manager for Tommy Dorsey ; Lt.

Ralph Elliott, professional football player for the ee
york Giants; Lt. John Maher, formerly business man-
the St. Louis Browns; and Captain William
one of the foremost magicians in the United
He was at one time president of the Master Ma-

ager ( rt
Swann,
States.

gicians of America.

 

The 194th Finals
(Continued from page 4)

James Gamelin LaPlante, Kentucky; Francis William
James Earle McCausland, Virginia ;
William McCoy, Jr., West Virginia; William Charles
McGraw, Jr., Missouri; William Cameron McLaren,
District of Columbia; Kenneth René Merrill, New Jer-
sey; Barton Wistar Morris, Jr., Virginia; Corneal Ber-
Virginia; Morrison Ray Nelson, Ken-

Lowry, Florida;

nard Myers, Jr.,

tuckvy; George Warren Priest, Ohio; Donald Leo Rich-
ardson, Michigan; I. V. Runyan, Tennessee; Francis

Risdon Russell, Massachusetts; Charles Thomas Sarde-
son, New York; Allen Jett Sharitz, Virginia; John Car-
penter Maryland; Kenelm Lawrence Shirk,
Jr., Pennsylvania; Roscoe Bolar Stephenson, Jr., Vir-
ginia; James Stanley Sutherland, III, Alabama; Charles
Edgar Wagg, Jr., New Jersey; William Arthur Webster,
Jr. Tennessee; William Jenkins Wilcox, Jr., Pennsyl-
vania; William Stilwell Wilcox, Georgia; Thomas Car-
lyle Wilson, Jr., Ohio.

Sherrard,

,ACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CHEMISTRY

John Paul Blakely, Virginia; John Webster McGehee,
Jr., North Carolina; Richard Daniel Norden, New York;
James Sidney Parsons, Virginia.

3ACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN COMMERCE

Edward Earl Alverson, Alabama; William Henry
Armstrong, Virginia; Frank Rosebro Bell, Jr., West Vir-
ginia; Richard Douglas Butler, New York; William
Montgomery Carson, West Virginia; James Herman
Daves, Jr., Tennessee ; George Robert Eshelman, Illinois ;
Samuel John Graham, Jr., New York; Frank Nicholls
Jarvis, Ohio; Melvin Carl Johnson, Maryland; S. L.
Kopald, Jr., Tennessee ; Harold Willard Laughlin, Mary-
land; Raymond Gordon Long, Maryland; Adolfo Nicolas
Luina, Puerto Rico; William Joseph Noonan, Jr., Flori-
da; William Kearney Sevier, District of Columbia; Jay
Armand Silverstein, Phi Beta Kappa, Tennessee ; Ralph

Scott Taggart, Illinois; Curtis Robert Welborn, Jr., Il-
linois; John Edward Zombro, Jr., Virginia.
CERTIFICATE IN JOURNALISM
Albert Darius Darby, Jr. West Virginia, and Kenelm
Lawrence Shirk, Jr., Pennsylvania.
The baccalaureate sermon was delivered by the Rt.
Reverend Frank A. Juhan, D.D., Bishop of Florida.

 

In Memoriam

JAMEs ENGLISH VAUGHAN, ’71, died in April, 1943,
in Atlanta, Georgia, at the age of 91. Mr. Vaughan was
a student here during General Robert E. Lee’s presidency.

SANDY PENDLETON Ficcat, A.B., ’87, died February
21, 1942, in Roanoke, Virginia. In 1887 he was awarded
the gold medal given by the Faculty for the outstanding
athlete of the year.

HonoraAsB_E ALFRED EvAN REAMES, B.L., 93, United
States Senator, died March 4, 1943, in Medford, Oregon.

WiciiAM F. Kurtz, LL.B., 95, died April 4, 1943,
in Wilmington, Delaware.

Dr. Wittiam ALLAN, A.B., '02, died in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, on Saterday, April 24, 1943. His
father was Colonel William Allan, professor of civil
engineering at Washington and Lee University and later
head of McDonough School in Maryland. Dr. Allan has
been one of Washington and Lee’s most loyal alumni.
In 1941, he was honored by his Alma Mater with the de-
gree of doctor of science.

H. Crim Peck, LL.B., 07, died suddenly of a heart
attack, on March 30, 1943, in Lexington, Virginia. For
twelve years, Mr. Peck had been the efficient treasurer of
the town of Lexington.

L. DittrArp Estes, LL.B., 18,
1943, in Dallas,

Bop ALLEN STREET, B.S..,

died February 10,
Texas.
'32, died May 16, 1943.

BEvERLY D. SumMERSON, B.S., °34, died May 1, 1942.

 

Service Casualties
(Continued from page 12)

Robert Alan Clarke, 44, from Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey, a member of the Merchant Marine, lost at sea in
April, 1943.

Robert Henry Keim, Jr.,
Arm, was killed in action, in May,

in Richmond, Virginia.

‘41, Lieutenant, Marine Air
1943. His home was

[17 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Fund as

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

 

 

 

TOG ao bei ss estas $130.00 Alumni Office
PFI OO?  - ccsene i diesieatean A I titel it inesctens Dr. E. L. Green
ne sgt |}! 5 Re LO cease ict attsnss dc cctubeceabpunpsoon’ B. A. Judd
ere neers | Sebaas senttitted i ee A oS Alumni Office

Ree... alesis A icncseetiee ia Vissi cscsscusteukl Alumni Office
***1806 __..... Ee hswsccddbes a basic hiss snttanescckoiye J. W. Lattomus
OPS TO7 i ixcih Di sisunsaien BE CUR iti ines cushdndes sasednittn Alumni Office

PISO + an, bp csiaaneae RON OS sicosinontcosctinines Edward A. O’Neal
**1899 Bit ve, Tr ae aid ts acecau amiable Alumni Office
***1000 _...... Gas SOU inchs s<cukdeasilcns Samuel Ruffin Horne
PRE ceca sce iecntisieg ATED ss dk ike dctiecbbdiacnshontehdasd Alumni Office
PPTs. caaces TN ns Ps ti ccertstaoaestions W. Dewey Cooke
PIGS \ecsdes Rai, PO cesiccsstkeisbkbiicdes Rev. Cary R. Blain
“iyoe* 3ic5 Bei uataks FOI iiastisasanbivclesbblshacpthcnsebtes J. B. Akers

IWGO nwa is lhe MP UMMRA 2ac.1,sddcinrtavhen neonate! Alumni Office
acon | Rater Oe theta iiiccs ie Blais satsichodephennaihas’ Henry C. Tillman
Eo couss Re ica ER siiasikiists ceauaacopeaas E. Clyde Hoge
PF TO A on. SAicteccdcceas a shksosckad dockaide Horace W. Phillips

IO Aoi AB ic ickcsses AI hci incietkslephieates John W. Claudy

1909-L...... Wie sinantille’ ED Sacer th coth setaaiaddia Guyte P. McChord
PRAT TOMA =... Zo ckscoscecees BRE ccicccandckh ccs shashaibocanbents C. W. Streit
***1910-L....... Fiddiivasoats OMe ceecsch voce Orange W. Richardson
PPP OTA. ssc BO acsticeccks 231.00... E. P. Guthrie

DE FB pinsciee Ua tapeinoness DSi s iietdnih ee bbssinnal Omer T. Kaylor
PF Ie Fh. cise Woscynerssvee IE Ritisddhea shapckabectccssacstebak aude Dan Owen
*#%*1912-L....... Twisted FUMING hen skdnchicdaccbertanseien Russell B. Wine
PP IT G+ A si 05sdh lh sactnchannse Oi dec ccccnibtiahscesscttahlanceaed oh C. C. Moore
SPR HL fun ied ev enscesteuns AT k cekasks manadocs teil Henry B. Goodloe
OPT RPE Pia ssdbSsusinskesve PRET itis chasis acegunedgebvisgts Henry N. Barker

1914-L....... Gmiciics MAb kdechvebasiiztindenaet R. Lee Beuhring
PTE ei iseseode Dcvaidedehon’ eR icknecckb cokuncvekisapstooted Charles R. Beall
**1915-L...... Fcnkhaiaiees POEL oid raids cones eins oek J. D. Trimble
PROTO I GSA ah 2 .cccccncstes SOE) sas etna Harrison P. Magruder
UE EE oaks. L Pacncd accuse 104.00 ; Earl B. Rose
PRE PET aii isiac- edutarscsecane 330.00 James A. Lee

1917-L....... Ficihin.. SOG chiccccccebesctcanssel Lafayette B. Chafin
TORI OTE o. Sseen BF di ats DOANE caidas netastaahedeihoal Homer A. Holt

OE isis Gh cates ROA ihisheaacinmstcaphante’ Leonard T. Brown
Fe PAL sa scd ance votvvacs SAU a Rec dahdabcts Thomas MacA. Stubbs

1920-L...... Puss SURI: acetsnsetdceasbaissbibbces L. Berkeley Cox

bt EY eee 5, ae DSO sis dicenssocd Aotinastink John L. Patterson

 

*More contributors than June 8, 1942.
**More money than June 8, 1942.
*** More contributors and more money.

Note: The above report of the 1943 Alumni Fund represents the largest amount
of money received in any year since the Class Agent Plan was started in 1933. While
there are a surprisingly large number of new contributors, there are also a surpris-
ingly large number of regular contributors who have not answered the Class
Agent letters this year. If you prefer to send your check direct to the
Alumni Office, your Class Agent will be duly notified.

[ 18 ]

    
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  

ot May 27, 1943

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

POE hse kth ass ccdie cosas Pieeitas nate od A ee R. C. We
PT rhs sk Oscscacvceces Paice tiveebec ences) Troy C. Musselw
***1922-T....... oir. Bie itiideachioniinteatt William E. Neble
PE PPA cdi LDscasssanesee a kccsediatieetna D. Raymond Snive
***1923-L....... Pisistcobios BF Oki ike esctis Emmett W. Poinde
ISSO eee. Rs ae, W. Goodridge Sale, ]
***1924-T....... a Pa a Scbintcdnjnsotieiek one John W. Gree
OS P1025: ie tintiierts ass iasotis diy ded Bruce F. Gannaw
***1925-L)....00 Dee SERN Aha fodctihas William A. McRitet
FP TS ZO. cists kes ckseacsse Oe at Thomas P. Fo
1926-L...... Sic tuctalens ic tecck risks teen dinhscddies Earl Valenti
PPPs Fis: UOicsisets ants RPM cdot tc heey dacs ak Jim Cox Wilbo
991927 Toikccs Bins IS CR i George D. Varn
CET O28 Age i Distessirce GOO. ie nnd F. M. P. Pearse, J
***1928-TL....... a i ai his tice ti George Oldham Cla
PPP TILIA... iiDbicckin teins EF a tcicsdendeitigareavaee Irwin T. Sander
***1929-T....... aoxebsints 35.00 Philip R. Beck
*ISSOCA 4523 i. ct OV POicAnsci bs xika dca done Kenneth L. K
1930-L...... eiathesines EP iuchestee hs kisncatvoueite Leonard H. Day
PDS 1 ks 15s kadar sehks eh te ie eee Frank T. Breae
1931-L...... Bras cs. sess MU aie hate yet Alumni Offie
ERR EN nelle tt RIPE vicbinssnsosyodeaseick John Clinton Ha
***1932-L....... DisatlAc Peak ics leteestsscoevcvinstp had Albert G. Pe
mieten AA EY Soar} Rae cian DOUNAI ss scuRiksi. cies aeteuns Luther Violett, J
1933-L...... iscentahians Riba uh asmachietictiacese J. J. Frampton, J
LF 5s 1B oiiccdous Ss fk bth 5 eka sks: Foster M. Palm
**1934-L....... Siete ht ctites Si catk Henry Taylor Jone
***1935-A...... Bedsriealbin Mathie oxcddinsessa ths William Schuhle, Ji
#49 1935-L,..005 Boccia GO chbiiinsscosiceuna Meredith Graham, J
1936-A...... Meiistscos Rn diiiss concedicscanns James L. Price, Ji
***1936-L...... Bu jaan Peis cninosdkccuasbaves W. E. (Tex) Tilse
PETIT PT tice ticks cists; RT ei cscs instecacacs L. V. (Jimmie) Butle
***1937-L....... Wetinckedices asa eckkcokeiohe ing ahaa lwined Edwin M. Mark
PF GP hssscck bk Oceccesesesss Si elbsacscesincssecstete Harry M. Philpot
sees dedeDanlnscsatoes ROR iss kes Charles H. Sempl
1939-L....... es GOT i, sevtdintcie John L. Hawkins, I
***1940-A......28......cc000 BAITED Siidans tantcostanbandaamaniincs A. Lea Boo
**1940-L....... a SOU, cs viacecckithbckerins Stanford L. Schewe
*#%1941-A.,.....34....cccccees 242.08 Paul D. Browt
1941-L....... Wadeesiakee’ 15.00 Pete S. Barroy
A oo ccceee oo Da Robert T. Vaughat
*#%1942-L 0.000 Tictasaicis Sa deirs sc sonsialiots Homer A. Jones, Jr
PH 94S Gee D TL scccccstenes 70.00 Alumni Office
Miscellaneous........ 1.55 Alumni Office
T Otel sivas 1212.... $10,491.17

-

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

— tt

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting
May 18, 1943, 2:30 p. m.

~ THE MIDST of a world at war and with ability to
vel unbelievably restricted, fifteen members of the
Washington and Lee University Alumni Association and
ene guest met in annual meeting at the Student Union
Building in Lexington, Virginia, on May 18, 1943. Those
present were John C. Morrison, Dick Edwards, Dan B.
Owen, L. J. Desha, Stuart Moore, M. W. Paxton, df,
Clayton E. Williams, R. N. Latture, W. Courtney King,
Roger A. Bear, Judge EK. C. Caffrey, Earle K. Paxton,
Reid Graves, Jack Crist, and Gaylord Stone. This repre-
sented the New York area, the Ohio Valley, Texas, North
Carolina, together with Virginia and West Virginia.

The meeting was called to order by John C. Mor-
rison, president, and Stuart Moore was designated to act
as secretary pro tem. The minutes of the preceding meet-
ing were read and approved.

President Francis P. Gaines of the University was
introduced and in a brief talk outlined the problems af-
fecting the University under war conditions. It was
pointed out that faculty, students and income have all
been seriously depleted, and virtually all extra-curricular
activities of the University would doubtless be suspended
for the duration; but that so long as there remains one
student and one teacher Washington and Lee will con-
tinue its traditional function as an institution of higher
learning, and would commend to the alumni throughout
the country the task of assisting in the rebuilding when
conditions are restored to something approaching normal.
Dr. Gaines then asked to be allowed to retire from the
meeting in view of other duties which called him.

Karle K. Paxton, in a few words, offered a welcome to
alumni returning from a distance.

President Morrison presented the report of the Class
Agent Fund which was pronounced the best report in all
aspects which had ever been presented. The President ex-
pressed his appreciation of the loyal and effective work so
ably carried on by Miss Mary P. Barclay in the absence
of the secretary. The report of the nominating commit-
tee heretofore appointed by the president was received,
presenting the names of three alumni to be voted on for
the four vacancies which will occur in the membership
of the Alumni Board of Trustees. It was reported that
the terms of office of the following members expired at

this meeting: John C. Morrison, ’25, Charleston, West
Virginia; Randolph G. Whittle, °24, Roanoke, Virginia ;
C. T. Chenery, ‘09, New York City; Dr. Reid White, °19,
lexington, Virginia.

The names presented by the nominating committee
were: Robert P. Hobson, Louisville, Kentucky ; John W.
Drye, New York City; Ki Williams, Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia.

On motion, the report of the nominating committee
was accepted and confirmed and, there being no further
nominations, the secretary was directed to cast the unani-
mous vote of the members present for the three nominees.
On further motion, the Board was authorized to fill
the remaining vacancy.

The chairman announced the election of Roger J.
Bear as president of the Alumni, Incorporated, and upon
taking the chair the newly elected president announced a
program of his term of office to be the task of preparing
for an acceptable student body when the war period is
over, and urged that each alumnus undertake to interest
two boys of a desirable type to enter Washington and
Lee University when they step out of uniform.

On motion, plans for the continued operation of the
Alumni Office and the duties and compensation of Miss
Mary P. Barclay were referred to the Alumni Board of
Trustees for the power to act.

The meeting adopted a resolution expressing the ap-
preciation of the alumni for the splendid work continued
by Miss Barclay and their confidence in her ability to
continue the conduct of the office in a satisfactory man-
ner during the absence of the secretary. It was the opinion
of a number of the alumni who expressed themselves to
the effect that Miss Barclay was rendering a most valu-
able service in a most acceptable manner and the Alumni,
Incorporated, and its members were very greatly in-
debted to her for her loyalty and accomplishments in their
behalf.

On further motion, the retiring president and mem-
bers of the Board were commended for their interest and
untiring service during their terms of office.

There being no further matters presented to the
meeting, the same was adjourned on proper motion.

STUART Moore
Secretary Pro Tem

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

A MESSAGE
From Your Alumni President

TE HAT The Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated,
at its annual meeting on May 18, chose me to serve as
its president for the coming year—I am highly honored.
That there are large responsibilities which go with the
honor—I am well aware. That with your cooperation
and that of the Board of Trustees we can make a worth-
while contribution to Washington and Lee University—

I am thoroughly confident.

Never, since I can remember, has the University been
so in need of the help of its Alumni. Now, and for the
next few years, we must—through our Alumni Associa-

tion—give more generously of our interests, our counsel

 

and our money—that our Alma Mater may carry on

-

through this crisis and be ready and set for greater service

after the fighting is over.

These are trying times—times in which the phrase,
“Called to Serve,” is seen almost daily in every newspaper
and magazine, and heard at some point in almost every

. vrs .
speech that is made. These are days when one is con-
sidered a slacker, unpatriotic and un-American if he fails
to heed the call for service. Each and every alumnus is
“drafted” for the next 12 months to the support of the

following program:

1. To keep in touch with the University through the
Alumni Office, advising of any change of address and

visiting the office at the University whenever possible.

2. To reply to your Class Agent’s letter—giving con-

crete evidence of your interest and accompanying that

[ 20 |

   
  
    
    
 
   

letter with a contribution if humanly possible. We my
keep the Class Agent Plan rolling, as it has rolled sin
1933, to a record breaking 1943.

3. To round up the right kind of boys for enterir
the University, immediately following the cessation

hostilities.

4. To make every effort to keep alive at least a nucle
of an alumni group in your particular city or area. T
must be the obligation of the alumni who are over tt

age for service with the armed forces.

We have every reason to be proud of the success ¢
the Class Agent Plan for the year just ended. See pag
18. Larger contributions—more contributors than e
before. We congratulate the Class Agents on the mag
nificient job they have done. We pay tribute also to tl
out-going president, Mr. John C. Morrison, as well as (
Miss Mary Barclay, who worked together to organiz
the 1943 campaign and saw it through to a record-break

ing finish.

We should take heart in the enthusiasm shown by
graduating class of 1942. More than half of the membe
of this class are with the armed forces and yet they ha
set an example by their response to the letter from thet
Class Agent, which should be a stimulant for all othe
classes. The future is still bright for Washington ane
Lee University when 1212 alumni join together in sup
port of their Alumni Association.

RocErR J. BEAR

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1892

1906

 

Vines E. TURNBULL
chief clerk of the Dis-
Third Na-

is

bursing Office,

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class
notes appearing in this issue. The letters from which
these notes are taken were written, for the most part,

Joun E. Scorr has re-
tired from active service
with the Engineering De-

yal District, 90 Church early last spring. The rapid influx of alumni into the partment of the Louts-
Street, New York, New several branches of the armed forces of the United ville and Nashville Rail-
York. He is entering the States have no doubt rendered some of these notes way Company because of

49th year of his continu-

ous service as a civilian

 

inaccurate. We would like to have more material for
class notes in letters to your Class Agents this year.

impaired vision, which fol-
lowed a severe attack of
influenza. His general

 

 

employee of the Navy De-
partment in New York.

1893

HARRINGTON WADDELL has resigned his position as
principal the Lexington, Virginia, public schools, at
the close of the current session, having served forty-six
years in this capacity.

1903

STUART CHEVALIER, member of the law firm of Mil-
ler, Chevalier, Peeler and Wilson, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, has had a book accepted by McMillan for publi-
cation shortly, under the title ““War’s End and After,”
which deals with various problems growing out of the
war, particularly with post-war planning. Mr. Chevalier’s
wife, who is the author of the recent popular novel,
“Drivin? Woman,” has sold the moving picture rights to
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who are working on the picture.
The tobacco scenes will probably be taken in North Caro-
lina or Virginia, when the crop comes in, and the picture
may be released before the end of the year.

A. C. BURKHOLDER is teaching Sociol-
ogy at Southwest Texas State Teachers
College, San Marcos, Texas. He says:
“Among my fondest memories are the
years which I spent as a student at Wash-
ington and Lee.”

R. T. FLANARy is president of the Nor-
ton Hardware Company, Norton, Virginia,
located in the coalfields of Virginia and
not far removed from those of Kentucky ;
and \West Virginia.

D. V. Gururie is head of the depart-
ment of Physics at Louisiana State Uni-
versity, University Station, Louisiana.

 

health is good, although
he cannot see well enough to read.

H. M. BANpby is a member of the Virginia House of
Delegates from Wise and Dickerson Counties. His home
is in Norton, Virginia.

GEORGE W. P. Wuip is a member of the law firm of
Lord and W hip, Munsey Building, Baltimore, Maryland.

B. J. MAYER is a member of the law firm of Lovejoy
and Mayer, LaGrange, Georgia. He has two children in
college.

1907

T. O. (“SHack”) BAGLEy is in the Insurance busi-
ness in Fayetteville, Tennessee. He says he still feels that
he could “kick one over,” but would hate to have to make
a demonstration.

\V. GILMORE IDEN is secretary to the American Insti-
tute of Steel Construction. His address is P.O. Box 424,
Bay Head, New Jersey

Harry W. MILLER is teaching in the
College of Engineering at the University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. He has
not been back to the campus for a long time
but is always interested and helpful.

1908

ERNEST OFFur? is specializing in Fed-
eral Housing Insured Loans at 1524 K
Street, N.E., Washington, D. C.

Puittip P. PacEr is with the Chicago
» Journal of Commerce, 12 East Grand Ave-
nue, Chicago, Illinois. His son is a junior
at Washington and Lee and an honor stu-
dent.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ALAN Porter LEE is engaged in the design and con-
struction of manufacturing plans for processing edible
oils and the manufacture of soap and glycerine. He is a
Consulting Engineer, 136 Libert Street, New York City.

M. B. O’SULLIVAN is chairman of Selective Service
Board No. 77. He says he is practicing law on the side.
His offices are at 303 Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville, Kentucky.

1910

Tom OrRbEMAN is still Associate Professor of Eng-
lish, Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oregon. He has two
children, All 10 and Dan 7. These children think the
“Swing” is a very close second to the “Star Spangled
Banner.”

CoLONEL J. NORMAN PEAsE is stationed in Washing-
ton at The Munitions Building, 21st and Constitution
Avenue.

Cary JOHNSTON is a member of the firm of Carneal,
Johnston and Wright, Architects, Richmond, Virginia.
His firm is now engaged, almost exclusively, in the con-
struction side of the emergency.

J. R. CHARLTON was in the coal business in West Vir-
ginia, but sold out in 1930 and now lives in the country at
Dillwyn, Virginia, in the summer and spends his winters
in Florida.

RAYMOND KENny is director of the Department of
Public Assistance for the State of West Virginia, located
in Charleston.

1911

Jupcr H. B. Grecory is a member of the State Su-
preme Court of Virginia. His home is in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

Ben P. Atnswortnu, Attorney-at-Law, Lexington,
Virginia, has a son, Edward Robinson, who is in the
Navy, and his daughter Mary Monroe, was married to
Lt. John McKenzie, so he has a son and son-in-law in the
armed forces.

JAMEs M. BarKER, JR., is in the insurance business in
Bristol, Virginia; director of the Dominion National
Bank and Bristol Savings and Loan Corporation. He is
now completing his 13th year as secretary of the Bristol

Rotary Club.
1912

SAM HoNAKER is now a Lieutenant Colonel, assigned
as Officer in Charge of War Department Liaison Section,
Fort Mason, California.

[ 22 |

  
  
  
     
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
    

J. FRANK Key is secretary and general manager ,¢
the Columbian Paper Company of Buena Vista, Virgin;

ArLos J. HARBERT is Judge of the Criminal Court ¢
Harrison County, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1913

Doak Davipson resigned last May Ist as Manag,
of the H. E. Harman Coal Corporation of which compar
he had been general manager since its organization. He
now with the Gulf Oil Corporation of Pittsburgh, Pen
sylvania, distributing their products from two plants, or
at Talyn, West Virginia, and the other at Grundy, We
Virginia. |

H. M. Woopwarp is practicing law in Norfolk, Vij
ginia. He has two sons: H. M. Jr., B.A., ’41, is now a
Ensign in the U. S. Navy—foreign service; the younge
is also headed for the Navy.

THORNTON W. ALLEN, composer and publisher 9
college songs under the firm of Thornton W. Allen Cor
pany, has recently composed the United Nations mare
anthem entitled “United Nations Forever,” which is wir
ning enthusiastic comment all over the country from pa
triotic groups and foreigners alike.

Harry J. Hanna is with the United States Mariti
Commission, Washington, D. C.

1914

J. D. THorNnvTon is in the real estate and insurane
business in Huntsville, Alabama. He has two daughte
and one son.

Bit Lovins is Judge of the Supreme Court of Ap
peals of West Virginia.. He is living in Charleston é
1565 Virginia Street. He has a son in high school who is
looking forward to Washington and Lee.

ALEX M. Hirz, attorney-at-law, Citizens and South-
ern Bank Building, Atlanta, Georgia. His son, Alex, Jr.,
graduated from Washington and Lee in May, 1942.

LEON (“IRtsH”’) O’QurIN is a member of the law
firm of Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker and O’Quin, First
National Bank Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

1915

Rospert M. McGEHEE is regional director of the
Department of Religious Education of the Presbyterian
Synod of Louisiana. He received the honorary degree of
Doctor of Divinity from Southwestern University of
Memphis in June, 1940.

a

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

ARTHUR \[. BirDSALL is practicing law in Belmar,
New Jersey, at 704 Tenth Avenue. He made a trip back
s the campus about two years ago and found many of
his old friends and renewed pleasant associations. He
“Really, I know as I have known through the
years, that the best days of my life were spent at Wash-
and Lee.” He has three girls, the oldest, 14. He is

says:

ington
the master of
church choirs.

his business and not its slave; still sings in

CHARLIE LYLE is personnel manager of the Koppers
Company. His address is
1210 S. Negley Avenue,
Pittsburgh, | ennsylvania.

JamEs I. BEAR is head
of the Biblical Depart-
ment of Union Theologi-
cal Seminary, Richmond,

_ "
> »
oe
+; i

ER ey

. °

7
Fs at

Virginia.

7

a

SUPE eee!

J. Cart FIsHER is il-
luminating engineer for
the Gas and Electric
Company of Baltimore,
Maryland, having held
this office since 1924.

’
>»

Joun D. WorTHING-
TON is editor and owner
of the Aegis, Bel Air,
Maryland.

1916
Norvin C.(“CHICK” )

EVANS is now a captain
in the United States
Army.

SELDON S. McNEER
has practiced law con-
tinuously in Huntington,
West Virginia, since he
got out of the army in
World War I. He has four children, two girls and two
boys.

1917

C. R. Hitt is president of the Merchants and Miners
National Bank, Oak Hill, West Virginia.

J. L. (“Luxe”) Witviams has been transferred from
Milton, Massachusetts, to the Waterbury, Connecticut,
main office of The Bristol Company, makers of instru-

 
    

ments for recording, indicating and controlling. His com-
pany is on a 100 per cent war basis. He still maintains his
home in Milton, but will eventually move his family to
Connecticut.

Homer A. JonEs is president and executive chairman
of the Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol,
Virginia-Tennessee. His son, Homer, Jr., received his
LL.B. from Washington and Lee in May, 1942.

D. W. THORNBURG was appointed city engineer of
Santa Fe, New Mexico,
on May 1, 1942.

WILLIAM O, BURTNER
is with the Department
of Justice, Washington,
D. C. He recently had a
serious illness and an
operation for mastoiditis,
from which he was re-
covering in May, last,
when his letter was writ-
ten.

.. Saree ion," ’ Vi.
\ wee Am ’

1918

JIMMIE AMBLER 1S
still with Ginn and Com-
pany, Educational Pub-
lishers, 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York. His duties
are largely those of sales
manager in the Middle
Atlantic States. He also
serves on the Publicity
Committee and makes
frequent trips to Boston.
His home is in Glen
Ridge, New Jersey, and
he has a wife and two
children, a daughter Jac-
quelin Ambler and a son,
James $. Ambler, Jr.

JAmMEs J. Izarp is still in the general insurance busi-
ness in Roanoke, Virginia. He has two boys—“‘one a big
strapping twenty-year-old son, who is a sophomore at
Princeton University, and another boy seventeen who is a
freshman at the Episcopal High School at Alexandria.”

E. V. Bowyer is in the utility business as commercial
manager of the Roanoke Gas Company, 121-123 Church
Avenue, S.W., which is under the supervision of Stone
and Webster Corporation of New York.

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1920
By CHESTER SHADE, Class Agent
Joun W. Drye, JRr., early succumbed to the attrac-
tions of the big town and is now a partner of Larkin,
Rathbone and Perry, with offices in the Central Hanover
Bank and ‘Trust Company Bldg., 70 Broadway, New
York City. John began his practice in New York and
hopes to see more in the future.

Josepu ‘I. ENGLEBY, JR., is in practice, with offices
in the Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.
Joe indicates that in these days and times, the law has
become something of a side-line with him, as a good deal
of his time is taken up with his work as air-raid warden
and his activities in the USO, YMCA, Advisory Board
and other civic and war organizations.

Cart A. Foss is serving as Public Relations Officer
for Selective Service in New York State, with head-
quarters at 76 State Street, Albany, New York. Public
Relations Officers travel a good deal, apparently, for
Carl says he gets home only about once a week. Carl is
married, and his daughter will be graduated from Vassar
this year. He recently served as vice-president of the
Alumni Association for upstate New York, and _ reas-
suringly reports that his letters to the alumni met with a
less encouraging reception than did those of your class
agent. Carl says he can be readily recognized by his ears,
but for the postman’s better guidance gives his home ad-
dress as 41 Steuben Street, Albany, New York.

PINKNEY GrIssoM was still in practice in Dallas
when my operatives last reported on him. I well remem-
ber that he and Ech Hansbarger and I were neophytes at
the ‘Texas Bar in the year 1920. For a good many years
Pink has been a partner in one of the South’s representa-
tive law firms, with offices in the Republic Bank Building,
Dallas, Texas.

Leicgu B. Hangs’ letter was very brief and to the
point. It told little more than that Leigh is in practice at
Roanoke, Virginia, with offices in the Mountain Trust
Building.

Cart K. Gitcurist has been in Charleston, West
Virginia, since 1920 and is at present connected with Vir-
ginian Gasoline and Oil Company in the capacity of as-
sistant secretary.

J. WALLER CALLISON is in the general insurance busi-
ness in Staunton, Virginia.

1921

Puit Harris is in the life insurance business in

[ 24 |

 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

Spartanburg, South Carolina, where he has been for
past nineteen years. He was married in 1924, and
a daughter sixteen and a son thirteen.

R. BLair Prick has been in the insurance business
Philadelphia for many years. He has a son fourteen ye;
old, who is working toward Washington and Lee. Blair
doing good work in heading other boys toward Wash
ington and Lee, and in the Philadelphia local al
chapter.

ELMER STUCK is manager of the Jonesboro Brie
Company, Jonesboro, Arkansas. He has a wife and th .
daughters, Margaret, Brenda and Sara. |

J. B. Hokgs is in the contracting business—Poto
Construction Company, Martinsburg, West Virginia.
has a wife, and two boys who will enter Washington ar
Lee sometime in the future. He says he and his wif
spend pleasant Saturday evenings with Merryman Gi
bert and his wife.

Stanton B. HumME is assistant director of main
tenance, Department of Highways, in the Central Offie
at Frankfort, Kentucky. He has been with this office sine
leaving college.

WititiAM A. GiBBons, JR., is assistant secreta
treasurer of the Liberty Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia

Harry B. Burt is president of Malt-A-Plenty, In
corporated, “America’s Finest Dairy Drink.’ This dri
has been remarkably successful, but they are now havi
headaches induced by sugar rationing. He is married ant
has two sons, one thirteen and the other four and a half
His address is 1019 South Troost, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

WatHen R. KNEBELKAMP was in the baseball busi
ness with the Louisville baseball club from 1921 to 1932,
and since that time has been with the Bernheim Distilling
Company as distiller, and now general manager. He mar
ried in 1932 and has two girls, one seven and the other
four and a half.

1922

KENNETH HEyL is a Lieutenant, U. S. Training Sta
tion, San Diego, California.

Wacrer K. Smiru has been commissioned a Captain
in the Army Air Force.
1923

Bos Carr is president of the R. H. Carr Lumber
Company of Jasper, Alabama.

O. Forrest McGitt is manager of the Florida
Branch, Mortgage Loan Department, of the Prudential

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

a
-ance Company of America. at 608-617 Marble Ar-

[nsul aa ie ‘
|.akeland, Florida. He has been president

Juilding,
Lakeland Rotary Club, and attended the Inter-
Canada,

cade
of the

tional Convention of Rotary at Toronto, last
ne : :

year.
James R. Tuomas handles the investments for the
Jefferson Standard Life in Texas, Oklahoma and New

\fexico. He has a son eleven and a daughter thirteen.

M.D.,

several years, located at Luray,

en 1. Donne was with the Virginia State
Health Department for
Virginia. In September,
1941, he
hack into general prac-
tice and on October 1,

» decided to go

opened an office in
Elizabeth, North Caro-
lina.

H. Hamp-
been in the
ministry of the Metho-
dist Church for the past

3EIRNIE

TON has

sixteen years. He 1s
now pastor of the Cen-
tral Methodist Church,
Elizabethton,

is married and

‘Tennes-
see. He
has three fine girls;
ages, thirteen, eight and
SIX,

1924

Jimmie HurFF is a
Lieutenant in the Fi-
nance Department, Ft.

McPherson, Georgia.

GEORGE MERCKE, JR.,
is an officer and direc-
The Jefferson
Working Com-
louisville, Ken-
He has five children,

tor of
Wood
pany,
tucky.

son.

four of his own and a step-

FRaNcIS W. PLowMaAN lives at Wallingford, Penn-
Sylvania, but spends most of his time shuttling between

New York and Washington, due to OPA and WPB.

Witum C.

Louisiana, since finishing law school, and finds the pro-

RoseErts has practiced law in Alexandria,

fession as fascinating as ever. He is a bachelor.

ALBERT M. Pickus has been in the theatre business

 

for the past sixteen years, all of this time in Stratford,
Connecticut. He is married and has three children—two

girls fifteen and eleven and a boy six.

JAMES VENABLE LOGAN is on the professorial staff
of Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
S. STONE
Stoneville,

is vice-president of Stoneville
North

being the buyer and manager for his company he 1s in-

CHARLES

Grocery Company, Carolina. Besides

terested in many side lines such as “expert” tobacco buy-

r, banking, and the movie business.

Mac-

leave

STUART A.
CORKLE is. on
from the University of
Texas, serving as Prin-
cipal Civilian Mobiliza-
Adviser in the Of-
fice of Civilian Defense,

tion

Washington, D. C. His
address is The Univer-
sity of Texas, Austin,
‘Texas.

GLENN R. StroutTt is

now chief accountant
of the United Hosiery
Mills

Chattanooga,

Corporation of
Tennes-
see. He is married and
has two children, Glenn,
and

Jr., age thirteen,

Ileanor, age nine.

Joun T. Botp was
still

Evansville,

practicing law in
Indiana,
letter
May,
1942, but was expecting

when his class

was written in
to go to work for the
War

Jallistics

Department as a
Inspector in
an ordnance plant in the middle-West.

1925

Harry Dawson, 6601 Exfair Road, Bethesda,
land, has lost 10 pounds. Well,
take him down, I guess he could easily do that.
Mary Pearson, born April 20, 1937
born May 24, 1938, and Harry, III, born November 11,
1940, in 1934 from the Na-
tional University School, and married Miss Helen

Mary-
with three children to
They are:
Helen Hendricks,
Harry received his LL.D.
Law

[ 25 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Hendricks on February 15, 1936. He is now claims ex-
aminer with the General Accounting Office.

Lutuer I,. Coptey is an attorney and counsellor at
law, Security Building, Miami, Florida. He says every-
thing is going well with him and his family.

Perry A. NorMAN is associated with the Western
Union in Dallas, Texas. He is married and has one son
four years old.

Bruce F. GANNAWAY is minister of the Hendrick
Memorial Methodist Church, Jacksonville, Florida. He
is Class Agent for ’25-A, and submits the following class
notes as of last summer :

Rozert F. GoopricH just wrote me from Camp
Blanding, where he says he is a buck private in the
rear rank of Co. 5 105th Engineers. Bob stayed single
too long I guess. Well, knowing Bob as we do, he won't
stay in the rear rank very long, but will be moved up
where he can give signals. I expect I'll get to see him be-
fore long since he is so close by.

Jor BRuIN, Jr., 319 E. 29th Street, Baltimore, Mary-
land, received his M.A. from the University of Virginia
in 1930, then did some further work in History and
Economics at Johns Hopkins. He was educational secre-
tary of the YMCA and teacher when he wrote, but said
he might go into the army soon, On October 31, 1924, he
married Miss Sadie Coffey, and they have two children,
Mackall Rust, III, born April 3, 1926, and Mary Jane,
born February 1, 1930. Joe has gained 12 pounds, and a
few gray hairs are cropping out.

“Lerry” Kier, 547 Starks Building, Louisville,
Kentucky, is an insurance agent. Can you imagine Lefty
weighing 190 pounds! On March 22, 1931, he married
Miss Tobie Marks, and they have two children, Frankye
Rae, born August 6, 1933, and Arlene Ann, born Febru-
ary 22, 1938. Lefty still has brown hair.

CuHarites Gore, 312 National Bank of Commerce
Building, Charleston, West Virginia, got his LL.B. from
West Virginia in 1926, and since that time has been prac-
ticing law as well as being a trust officer of the National
Bank of Commerce. On September 3, 1938, he married
Miss Geraldine Starkey. Charlie has picked up 20 pounds,
but is still the same blonde he was at Washington and Lee.

ALLAN SLOAN, 494 Spring Street, Atlanta, has given
up selling road machinery for the duration, and accepted
a commission as Captain in the Engineers Corps. Ten
years ago September 2, he married Miss Lesse Dwight,
and they have two children, Allan Poe, Jr., born April
16, 1938, and Mary Carter, born October 30, 1942. Allan

[ 26 |

  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

must be the same as ever, for he has only picked up
pounds in all these years, and while he has less hair, jt ;
the same color. .

Roy Stack, Atlantic City Electric Company, Bridge
ton, New Jersey, married Miss Harriet Yates on Jun
23, 1929. Their two daughters, Maryanne and Susan
were born on March 30, 1931 and November 13, 194¢
respectively. Roy is division manager of the Atlantic Cit
Electric Company. He has picked up another 20 pounds
to the “round figure” of 225, and still has half his
left, the same shade. Maybe he pulled the gray ones!

Watton Rex finally broke down and wrote. I’ve see
Walton quite a bit in the past seven years, and he’s
ing a good mark for himself. He lost two pounds, an
some of his hair, with the rest turning slightly, but y
would all recognize him on sight. Rex and McGill wer
such pals at Washington and Lee that they went to Or
lando, Florida, after leaving school, married the twi
daughters of Mayor Autry, and organized the Rex-Me
Gill Investment Company. A few years later McG
moved to Lakeland, where he is now one of the officials 0
the Prudential Life. Walton is president of the Rex-Me
Gill Company. He was married on September 15, =
and his son, C. W. Jr., was born on October 15, 1928
Walton has been president of his Civic Club and most
everything else he got into, and has done most unusueé
work as a member of the Florida Citrus Commission.

Gisson WirueErspoon, 716 Threefoot Building, Me
ridian Mississippi, let Washington and Lee give him a lay
degree in 1927, On April 25, 1940, he married Miss Jewé
Cook. He is 25 pounds heavier than when at Washingte
and Lee, but has relinquished none of his black hair. Gil
son recommends that Washington and Lee adopt
Tennessee system of football, and after what little Rol
lins did this year, I’m all for it.

CaLtvin Burton, Roanoke, Virginia, is still prac
ticing medicine unless Uncle Sam has taken him into t
service to look after his men. Calvin received his M.D.
from the University of Virginia in 1928, and on February
15. 1935, was married to Miss Abne Vaughn Lunsfore
They have two daughters, Susanne, born May 2, 1939,
and Julia, born May 12, 1941. Calvin has climbed from
155 to 170 pounds. He says that when at Washingtor
and Lee, his hair was dark and present, and while it is
still the same color, there is much less. |

W. K. Payne, JR., Box 549, Raleigh, North Carolina,
boasted in his letter that he was still enjoying single bles
edness. My guess is that he is probably married to the
U. S. Army now, but maybe not. He has been associate
marketing specialist, Tobacco Branch, A.M.U.S.D.A. He

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

yw weighs 145 rather than 135, and says that when
nt ;
at WV ‘ashington and Lee his hair was there, but now 1s

dightly gone.

Witson Roacu, 815 West Street, Wilmington, Dela-
ware, writes me that he will never forget the snowball
fight we had (which I have forgotten). Well, I best re-
member Wilson from an absent-minded moment that he
a One day he and Woods were out for a walk, and
ppened to stroll across the Lexington golf course. Wil-

Woods, this would

ha

sol
make a darn good golf

course, wouldn't it?”
Well, Wilson is general
agent for the
chusetts Protective As-

, suddenly spoke up and said, “Say,

Massa-

sociation, in charge of

the Wilmington office.

1926 to 1940. On December 26, 1931, he married Miss
Mary Boykins Harris, and they have two children, Pa-
tricia Holt, born May 12, 1934, and Marcia Stone, born
September 16, 1937. Over a year before we entered the
war, Morris, along with Charlie Buford, were two of the
three new field directors employed at the beginning of the
Sut just listen to this. One month before
a new set on

“emergency.”
the sale of tires was restricted, Morris put
his car. What a man!

McVay, Huntington, West Virginia, is the
advertising
» manager, Huntington
Publishing Company.
He married Miss Kath-
eryn Mootz on August
7, 1938, and on Sep-

tember 2, 1941, John

Joun T.
national

 

He moved there from
Washington, and _ is
glad, for he says, “that
place is nuts.” Wilson
hasn't changed a bit in
weight or hair, and still
is one of our remaining
bachelors.

Ep Rrerze, 1714 Sul-
grave Road, Louisville,
Hotpoint Distributor,
has had to give up his
business for the dura-
On October 7,
Kd married Miss

tion.
1933,

Lucy McGowen, and
they have two children,
Henry Ed, II,
February 9, 1938, and
Lucy Scott, born April
13, 1940. Ed is slightly

gray, and has 35 pounds

to add to his 140.

born

married Miss

Kpwin Horr Myrick, Girard, La.,
Mary Ella Sproles, on July 15, 1930, and their daughters
Katherine Glynn and Mary Holt were born on April 8,
1932, and March 14, 1936, respectively. Ed is Richland
Parish representative for the Tallulah Production Credit
Association. He also has 20 more pounds, but otherwise
the same.

Morrts ABERNATHY, field director, American Red
Cross, Camp Lee, Virginia, is in his new work for the

duration, after practicing law in Lawrenceville from

 

Edward was born(since
my boy is just a few
older than
I know

months
yours, Johnny,
something of the joys
you are having). We
would all know Johnny,
for the only change in
his appearance is that
he has added about five
pounds.

Puitiep HowertTon,
304 Johnston Building,
Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, is general agent
for the Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance
Company. On Novem-
ber 18, 1926, he mar-
ried Miss Lemma J.
Shepherd, and Philip,
Jr., came to their home
on February 13, 1936.
Phil looks the same except for the ten pounds he has

added.

ALLEN Rusuvton, Box 1751, Birmingham, Alabama,
is now Captain in the Ordnance Department, U. S. Army.
Allan says that what hair he has is still black, and that he
has gone from the 145 pound class to 155. That’s all I
know about Allen.

Jutian C. FRANKLIN, High Point, North Carolina,
received his law degree at U .N.C, in 1938. On August 30,

[ 27 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1934, he married Miss Georgia Smith, and they have a
son, William Acree, born November 14, 1941. Julian is
now practicing law, has picked up 30 pounds, but has
lost some of his hair. What he has is still brown.

Perry Hunter, Johnson City, Tennessee, is owner
of the R. C. Hunter Insurance Agency, established in
1887. He has lost 10 pounds of his 155, and his hair is
showing streaks of gray. On June 16, 1933, he married
Miss Winsome Battershill, and they have two children,
Barbara, born August 29, 1934, and James Robert, born
April 6, 1940.

James D. Hormes, 2918 Collier Avenue, Jacksonville,
Florida, is secretary-treasurer of the Foley Lumber Com-
pany. On November 17, 1926, he married Miss Adelaide
Harris, and James D. Holmes, II, was born on Septem-
ber 26, 1931. He says his hair is gray or gone, but he still
holds to his 165 pounds, no more, no less.

1926

Joun T. Martin is now with the production (opera-
tions) department of the Morgantown Ordnance Works,
Morgantown, West Virginia. This is an ammonia plant
owned by the government, built and operated by the Du-
Pont Company.

NeEtson LAKE is practicing law in Charleston, West
Virginia, with the firm of Lively and Lively, 400 Security
Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

EK. A. Morris is vice-president of the Blue Bell Globe
Manufacturing Company, Greensboro, North Carolina.
“The world’s largest manufacturers of work clothing.”

1927

W. M. (“Britt”) Pore has been office manager of
Scott and Stringfellow, Bankers and Brokers, Richmond,
Virginia, since 1929. He has been commissioned a Cap-
tain in the U. S. Army.

THOMAS PrICE STEARNS is teaching in the Salisbury
School, Salisbury, Connecticut.

1928

VirciL FisHEr asks that his address be changed to
2413 Berkeley Drive, Wichita Falls, Texas. He is mar-
ried and has two children, both girls.

Wititiam T. Owen has been with the New York
Telephone Company for fourteen years. He reports the
birth of a daughter, Nancy Ann Owen, on July 1, 1941.

[ 28 |

   
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
  

J. B. CLtowkr, Jr., is minister of the First Pr
terian Church, Pacific Avenue at Thirty-sixth §¢
Virginia Beach, Virginia.

1929
Notes By Class Agent

Harry H. NEwBeErRyY was associated with a bond.
mortgage company in New York until 1935, when he
cided to go into business on his own and organized Ng
berry and Company, Incorporated, Real Estate, at 2
Broadway. He married in 1938, and has a little girl ne;
two years old.

ALLEN MorcGawn says: “I’m in the Navy Air
a Lieutenant (s.g.) ... Am stationed at the Naval
School being built at Millington, Tennessee.”

  

Water H. Witcox, who is associated with the §,
Warren Company, paper manufacturers in Boston, M;
sachusetts, writes: “I have no news of interest, but 4
might make a note that my address has been changed
121 Clifton Street, Belmont, Massachusetts.” |

Stuart HEMPHILL, M.D., of Danville, Kentuel
says: “I am practicing medicine here in Danville ¢
occasionally see some of the old Washington and L
boys.”

FRANK PARKER, now living in Charlottesville,
ginia, says he has nothing startling to report: real est
insurance and farming.

J. M. SHACKLEFORD says: “This past year has be
for me, as it has for so many, an extremely busy 0
During the entire year I have been stationed at Ab
deen Proving Ground and have been serving in the cape
ity of assistant adjutant of the post. It was in May |
last year that I was promoted to the grade of Captain,
I can report no promotion during the past twelve month
Now the Proving Ground is in process of reorganizati
with the set-up of a new staff to handle post administ
tive problems. I am not to be part of that staff, but a
pleased with the prospect of becoming executive offic
of the Proving Center as the industrial part of the Pro
ing Ground will be called. The other part of Aberdee
Proving Ground is the Ordnance Training Center whe
we now have quite a few men in training.”

1930

L. P. Brown, III, is president of L. P. Brown Com
pany, Incorporated (bagging and ties). He has been mé
ried five years and has a daughter three years old.
address is 1201 Exchange Building, Memphis, Tennesse

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—— tt

Moreton, Brookhaven, Mississippi, re-

pavip H.
4 new daughter, Laura Lou Moreton, born Septem-
rts < ,
a 28, 1941.

\LEXANDER L. Roperson, JR., has been with the
puPont Company ever since leaving Washington and
Lee. At present he is located in the Credit and Collection
Department in Wilmington, Delaware. He is married and

has a son 14 months old.

HERBERT JAHNCKE Is connected with the family firm

of Jahncke Service in New Orleans. He reports the birth

of a third son.

Vircinius J. BARNETT is manager of the Group and
Pension Department of the Aetna Life Insurance Com-
pany, 120 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois. He owns a
home at Winnetka, Illinois.

Jim Hess is married and living in the “Honeymoon
Capital,” Niagara Falls, at 626 Ferry Avenue. He has
two daughters. He has had the same employer since 1934,
and is doing cost accounting and general office work in
the manufacturing of Carbide and Carbon Chemical Cor-
poration.

1931

GrorcE JUNKIN is with Federal Crop Insurance,
Washington. He was married June 24, 1942, to Mary
Louise Bucher of Dayton, Ohio. Mrs. Junkin received her
M.S. in Chemical Engineering from Ohio State in 1932.

Dr. LEoNARD C. BorLAnp is practicing dentistry at
901 South Oak Park Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.

Sip CLAy is trust officer of the Farmer Bank and
Capital ‘Trust Company, Frankfort, Kentucky.

1932

M. Crockett HucueEs, Jr., lives in Bluefield, Vir-
ginia, and has quite an active part in the affairs of his
community. He is married and has a daughter five years
old,

Ross MALonk, JR., is practicing law in the J. P.
White Building, Roswell, New Mexico. His firm is At-
wood and Malone.

1936
H. L.. Ropertson is a sergeant in charge of the In-
vestigative Unit with the State Police, Richmond, Vir-
ginia,
1937

Wa tty BerRNarp is with Hudson Dyestuffs Corpora-
tion, 333 Hudson Street, New York City.

Kent Forster, when his letter was written last April,
was a member of the History Department at Pennsyl-
vania State College, where he found the surroundings
most congenial.

Anpy Baur is with the Baur Flour Mills Company,
7020 South Broadway, St. Louis, Missouri.

WarREN CLiBuURN, JR., is working for the Golden
Queen Mining Company of Mojave, as assistant assayer.
He is living at Rosamond, California.

1939

SHERWIN B. FRENCH is still with the Detroit Times
in the Market Research and Merchandising Department.
His address is 2239 Burns Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

CHARLES SKINNER is working at the United Aircraft
Corporation. His address is 25 Farnham Road, West
Hartford, Connecticut.

1940

Dick EAsLey is working in the Cincinnati offices of
Proctor and Gamble Company, in the field advertising
department. His address is 30 E. McMillan Street, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.

Peyton E. Rick is an Ensign (SC) U.S.N.R., now
in the Canal Zone.

Homer D. Jongs, Jr., after two years service with
the Koppers Coal Company of Pittsburgh, has entered
the Naval Reserve. He received his commission as En-
sign and is now an instructor.

1941

CHARLIE THALHIMER has been working for the Of-
fice of the Newport News Shipbuilding Company, since
his graduation.

Hav W. SmirH has completed his freshman year at
the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond. He has
pledged Phi Chi medical fraternity, and was elected to a
position on “X-Ray” (the annual). He is on reserve
status as an Ensign H-V (p) in the U.S.N.R.

1942

Lee D. PARKER is with the Virginia Department of
Highways. His address is 313 Mallory Avenue, Hamp-
ton, Virginia.

KENNETH S. CLENDANIEL is a student at the South-
ern Baptist Theological Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky.
On the side he is working in the Naval Ordnance plant.

 

 

 

 

 

aaa

“i
ae

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

Leet ti... pc iats.. Ming daw Sita tabs
D MOIOSO Bk cose sus as for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from

Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

Note: No complete sets are available at this date. Single plates in stock at this
date are as listed below. Please indicate first, second and third choice.

MULBERRY BLUE GREEN
Ist Ed. 2nd Ed. 2nd Ed. 2nd Ed.

1. Washington College 0 0) 0 16
2. Lee Chapel 0) 0 0) 0
3. Lee Jackson Home 5 3 l 8
4. Campus Walk 0 l 0 6
5. Carnegie Library 3 16 20 10
6. Doremus Gymnasium 2 18 18 10
7. Tucker Hall 4 6 Y 7
8. Washington College 1857 0) 0) 0) 16

Ship plates to:
We ae 2 soe aack, 122. cdbywacks Salogh poked spbete Cacanne sie sds til side cbs CoG RAa est PRI

eR ght tel ekg ROO ie ee ee AN ia. hock a.

COSCO SSSSSSSEESE SES SHSEEEE SHEESH SHS ESHEEESEHESEHSHSHSHEHSSHEHSSHEEHEEHSEEHSHSHSSHSSHESHESHSSHSHEHESHEHEEHHE HHS SHESEHEHHHSHEHSHESHEEHESHEHEHOHH SESE SEES

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

