 

|

Ivers

Lee Un

ashington and

 

 

 

 

 

A New

Washington and Lee
Song Book

 

 

College Friendships
The Swing (verse and chorus)

Fight, Fight, Blue and White

and

Thornton Allen's new song

Salute to the Generals

 

 

This 16-page booklet also includes Swanee River,
Carry Me Back to Old Virginny and Dixie

ORDER THROUGH THE ALUMNI OFFICE

Price 50 cents

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

——

Appalachian
L.

Pp. Collins, Marion, Va.
nsas
Benes H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
ta, Georgia
SM. Hitz, C. and S. Bank. Building
Baltimore, Maryland
J. Carl Fisher
‘-mingham, Alabama
Bop’ Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
ntral Kentucky
a. Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
Ruge DeVan
Chattanooga, Tennessee
Cc. R. Avery
hicago, Illinois
. ne’ ‘Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio
Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina
John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio ca
Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley
Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan
Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.

Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Cc. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Oldham Clark, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York ©

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Republic Bank Bldg.
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

George Haw
Roanoke, Virginia

George Ould, 600 Grandin Road
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California,

Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State

George W. Keller, Simms-Keller Bldg.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

Brian Bell, Star Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XVI MAY, 1941 No. 4
aor ne Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor...\GEORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Py psident oo Dr. R. W. Fow.xgEs, 1915
WeCreun yy ak: Harpy ie. (Cy) Youne, 191/
T VEGSUEER So Dr. Rein Walire, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. CarroLtit Megan, 1925
ALLEN. Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
Joun C. Morrison, 1925
R. G. WuHITtte, 1924

 

 

Contents for May, 1941

PAGE
mu lovitation {dae Cresitears Fa) =o 3 a a
A New Washineton aadslce. Sone 2) oe ee +
The Senior Danguer 0 194i a 5
A Reside Ol sSprine Sports. a 6
ROnn ils (COMMON 2 ose hs ee er es 9
‘Pwo Veats-ot theaaw. Review... ao ae 10
PU aie e ee es 11
Deal hain Association: NOES... oe a a 13
Pep VOe iat oe ae a ea ee ee ee 16

(lass Notes. 2.02 ee ee ee 17

 

FINALS 1940

Top: Concert on the campus—Eddie
Duchin playing—a 1940 innovation.
Center: Alumni President Joe Lykes
leads alumni figure with Mrs. Gaines
assisted by Mr. and Mrs. Ed Brown.
Bottom: The commerce seniors re-
ceiving their B.S. degrees from Dr.
Gaines. First to the right of the
rostrum in the front row is Senator
Henry T. Wickham, 1868, oldest liv-
ing graduate, who gave an
inspiring address.

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

An invitation... .

(The President's Page)

. back to see us, Mr. Alumnus, at commencement,
if possible, but come whenever you can.

*K OK OK

One of the valid boasts of this University is the na-
tional distribution of its student body. We feel that this
factor, in addition to other valuable implications, makes a
real contribution to the education of all boys in our group.

*K OK OK

But when this factor is transmuted into the world of
alumni it has in it the elements of a problem. These boys
who once brought the wholesome viewpoint of remote
sections, go back into manifold activity to those remote
sections. Lexington is at great distance from the majority
of them. It is probable. that not many of their fellow
alumni live in the immediate community. Lexington,
moreover, is not on one of the main lines of crowded
traffic. There are compensations in this fact, but it does
make it more difficult for the alumnus who might “drop
in” if he could just pause between trains.

eee

But we urge you to come back to see us. This invita-
tion is not merely based on the sincerity of our hearts’ de-
sire, but also on the sincerity of a conviction that you will
enjoy a visit. We believe that there are many develop-

 

ments here that will impress you and encourage you. We
should like for you to see with your own eyes something
of the fitness of your school to do its work. We believe,
also, that you will find many of the unchanging charms
and values. We should like for you to reassure yourself

at this point. at

Most. of all, if- 1. do not repeat’ tediously, we are
anxious for you always to be mindful of the abiding fel-
lowship of cultured and devoted minds that really make

up the University. ae

This fellowship includes many members who stand
in different relationships. The trustees have one point of
view, the faculty represent one of the sustaining forces,
the students are the members in most active participa-
tion; but the alumni have lifetime rights in this fellow-
ship of the Washington and Lee spirit.

ek te

Come back to see us. We shall be glad, and we think
you will be glad.

FS fide as

President

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A New Washington and Lee Song

LTHOUGH we doubt that any Washington and Lee
A song—or any college song as far as that goes—can
ever quite come up to the “Swing,” we believe that at last
the “Swing” has a companion in its lonely grandeur
the companion is by the same composer.

Thornton. W. “Allen,
1913, the well-known writer

and, publisher: .of the

      

“Swing” came forth this
year with a new Washing-
ton and Lee song, dedicated
to the Generals of Washing-
ton-and Lee, which cannot
fail to make more musical
history for the college. It is
called “‘Salute to the Gen-
erals.”’ |

It was first introduced
this winter in New York at
the big meeting of their
Alumni Association, in the
Rainbow Room at the top
of Radio City, where 104
alumni and their wives,
along with a great many
others not directly connect-
ed with the University, rose
simultaneously, cheering
what they knew was going
to be a song loved by future
generations of Washington
and Lee men, if not by the
rest of the country as well.

Already ‘Salute to the
Generals” has been praised
by those who know. Ben Cutler, leader of the Rainbow
Room orchestra, who had the honor of playing it for the
first time on short notice and with an incomplete orches-
tration, was enthusiastic in his plaudits; while Harold
Bauer, world-famous pianist and composer, who heard
it when recorded by NBC, called it “a great college song.”

Many alumni have heard it already. Part of the New
York group, meeting at the Midston House on April 18th,
listened over and over to the recording, and then lifted
their voices in a rendition of the new “Swing,” enjoying
every moment. At the Senior Banquet this spring—the
annual party at which you entertain the men who will be

Lt

 

Thornton W. Allen, 1913

  
    
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   

newest Washington and Lee alumni—it was sung often,

Next fall, at one of the football games—probably at
the Homecoming Game—we expect to hear it played by
the college band—trumpeters introducing the ‘ ‘Salute?
like a bugle call—marching down the neld—eveuaam
joining in on _ the “trio”
which is the chorus. Soon
we shall all know it and fp
glad that we can call it one
of our songs.

At the present moment
‘Salute to the Generals”
not in a finished stage: it is
complete in both words and
music, but the orchestra-
tions, which are about to be:
sent to important band-lead-
ers all over the countig
have still to be brought to”
perfection. We  cannge
therefore, include all you
would like to know and will
know. But imagine martial
music — trumpets _ blaring
out:

“Give a salute to the Gen
erals :

Give a salute to Washing-
ton and [ee

On Generals, onward

Never give in!— 4

Keep marching on, Gen-—
‘rals ong ‘

It's another fighting song for another tcleell team.
(The song is of course copyrighted). |

One plan regarding the new music should interest all
Soon, a sixteen page booklet of Washington and Lee
songs will be published by the Thornton W. Allen comp-.
any in cooperation with Cy Young and Professor John
Varner, director of the band and Glee Club, containing @
Dedication, ‘Salute to the Generals,” the “Washington |
and Lee Swing”’ (published now entire for the first time),
“Fight, Fight, Blue and White,” by Professor John Gra-

(Continued on page 14) {

At the S

 

enior Banquet, presented by the Alumni Association to the graduating class: Left to right, the speakers’ table and three groups of guests

The Senior Banquet of 1941

EMBERS Of the class of ’41 were guests of the Alumni

Association at the annual senior banquet on April
29, held this year in the new Pine Room of the May-
flower Hotel.

Designed to acquaint the seniors with the purpose and
activities of the Alumni Association, the banquet was at-
tended by 175 candidates for degrees. Dr. Richard W.
Fowlkes, 15, of Richmond, president of the association,
presided.

Highlight of the evening was President Gaines’ ad-
dress, in which he coupled a personal message to the
graduates with a picture of the relationship between the
University and its alumni.

“Don’t let the vicissitudes of the next two or three
years divert you from your life purpose,” he told the
seniors. “Aside from those boys who laid down their
lives for their country, the greatest toll of the last war
was taken from those who were diverted from their
great purpose of life and never came back to it. Keep
your head cool and the purpose of your heart clear.”

Then speaking to the seniors as future members of
the Alumni Association, Dr. Gaines described the close
personal bond that exists between the University and the
alumni.

“We've come into a new conception of the relation
between the institution and its alumni in recent years,”
he explained. “It is a kind of continuing relationship to
see what the University can do for the alumni.

“This institution has some abiding obligation to those
men who paid it the transcendant compliment of coming
to its campus. ‘he school owes you something for it.”

To permit the University better to serve the alumni,
he pointed out, the alumni secretary is now an administra-
tive official—a dean of alumni, corresponding to the dean
of students who serves the undergraduates.

“Alumni can help the University,” he added, “in
three ways:

“First, keep us informed of your activities.

“Second, vou can help us discover the kind of boys

(Continued on page 8)

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Resumé of Spring Sports

B aseb all Showing more power and prom-

ise than at any time in the past
By BAYARD BERCHAUS fy. years, Washington and
Lee's baseball forces this spring led the state “Big Six”
race until late in the season before being shoved into sec-
ond place by their
arch-rivals from
the University of
Virginia.

Then, on the
fateful afternoon
in the first week
of May, the Cava-
liers invaded Lex-
ington, humbling
the Generals with
a 49 to: 3 daeing,
knocking them
unceremoniously
from their high
seat at the head of
the state stand-
ies. ariiers the
Generals marched
on Charlottesville
and squelched the
highly-touted Wahoos 4-2 behind the steady pitching of
Sophomore Johnny Ligon, and added wins over Rich-
mond and VPI to set the Big Six pace.

The baseball squad was not lucky enough to escape
the “injured captain” jinx which has dogged W. & L.’s
major sport teams this school year. Diamond Captain
Bobby Gray, slated for the biggest of his four big years
as a stellar infielder, was put out of action for the early
season games with an injured shoulder and got off to a
bad start.

If anyone has counted the Generals out for the season
of 1941, he can look forward to the teams of °42 and
‘43, particularly the latter, for seven of the 11 players
who are seeing the most action this year are sophomores.
They are Ligon, pitcher; Jim Wheater,. catcher; Jeff
Hudson, first base; Danny Owens, second base; Teddy
Ciesla, third base; Bal Mattox, left field, and George
Eshelman, center field.

The battery of Ligon and Wheater might well make
Ligon has shared the mound
ancl

glad the heart of any coach.
with Veteran Bob Gregerson in big league style,

[ 6 |

 

Dr. Gaines Greets Fred Perry and Sammy Snead

  
  
  
 
   
    
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

Wheater, besides being a capable receiver, has become
the Babe Ruth of the outfit along with Bob Keim. It Was’
Jim’s timely homer in the eighth inning of the Richmond
game here that sparked the Generals’ winning rally jy
that contest. At this writing the Generals are still on the
short end of their
won - lost stand.
ings for all gam
played. The sea
on’s two trips
seemed to prove
especially disas-
trous. The open-
ing game with '
Lynchburg Colm
lege ended after
10 innings in the
sole deadlock, 3-3,
The spring vac
tion trip followed,
during which W,

& L. was rainedm
out with William
and Mary annem

Richmond, lost to-
the U. S. Naw
Base 9-1, Wake Forest 10-2, North Carolina 15-6, Duke |
5-3, and won from N. C. State 5-4.

Back in Lexington, the Generals bowed to UNC:
again, 9-5, and to Michigan 10-8. Then came the pleasant
victory over Virginia, 4-2, followed by the Washington
trip on which the team started off right by trimming the
University of Maryland 7-4 and wound up by losing to.
George Washington 9-7 and Georgetown 10-8. ‘

Victories over Richmond, 7-4, and VPI, 8-6, with a
loss to W. & M. sandwiched between gave the General
their top berth in the Big Six. Then followed a routine
14-3 licking, administered to Morris Harvey of West Vir
ginia just before the downfall to the Cavaliers. q

Three more games remain on the schedule at this”
time—Davidson, Maryland and VPI. |

Track

By KEN VAN DE WATER

Coach Jack Hennemier’s pre-
season prediction that his:
track squad would be one of
the largest in recent years with several outstanding met
to capture most of the team’s points was just about right.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—— ts

But they didn’t capture enough of those points. The rec-
ord shows the Generals defeated William and Mary and
lost to Richmond and VPI in dual meets. The “Big Six”
<tate track meet was held on Wilson field on May 10, but
the hest that the Generals could do was to take fifth place.

But to get back to Coach Hennemier’s prediction of
several outstanding men. Heading the list of luminaries is
W. & L.’s ace miler, Cliff Muller. Muller didn’t run until
his sophomore year and since then has made quite a name
for himself. He tried just about all the distance events
and finally settled on the mile. Running his first time in
that event against William and Mary this year he set a
new school record of 4:25.6.

In the shot put, Lillard Ailor, the big tackle of foot-
ball fame, set another school record when he tossed the
shot 45 feet one-half inch, replacing the mark set by
Bill Stephens.

Almand Coleman, now professor of accounting, who
coaches the javelin throwers, saw his own record fall
when Herb Friedman tossed the javelin 180 feet 8 inches
in a meet with Richmond. In the state meet, Friedman
threw the javelin 188 feet to break his own record.

t

Another consistent winner this year has been Bill
Murray who captured the 440-yard dash in every meet
and won the state 440 race in 51.2. Bill Jennings, a junior,
won the 880 in two meets and took a close second against
VPI to be a heavy point gainer. In the dual meets Bud
Yeomans, who runs the hurdles and broad jumps, has been
one of the best point getters.

Among the freshmen, who have not been too fortunate
this year, Chuck Wooters has been the standout. He cap-
tured the freshman 60-yard dash at the Southern Con-
ference indoor games and won all of his 100-yard dashes
this spring until he pulled a muscle to keep him from com-
peting in the state meet.

Stars literally fell on Washington
and Lee this year in the form of a
dozen top-ranking world famous ten-
nis players, who were brought to Lexington through the
efforts of student-promoter Hugh Strange.

Tennis

By Dick SNYDER

| While the tennis team was winning nine and losing
‘Ix matches during the season, professional and amateur
champions came to Lexington to perform for the bene-
nt of the team and the public in general. Perhaps the
best known of these was Fred Perry, long, lithe Britisher,
who has held almost as many amateur and professional
Utles as it is possible for one man to gather. During the
last three weeks of the season Perry acted as W.&L. coach,
temporarily succeeding Ollinger Crenshaw in that capac-
ty. Under his tutelage the team won three and lost only
ee —to Virginia.

John Faunce, Hollywood pro-star and coach of Wel-
by Van Horn, was brought to town to act as Perry’s as-
sistant. On Perry’s first day in his official capacity, he
and Faunce played with Joe Whalen and Dick Skeen in
an exhibition match. Whalen is former National Open
champion, while Skeen has been runner-up to Perry in
their last three professional tournaments.

Also here on that “opening day’ were Herman Peter-
son, one of the greatest of all European stars, Lloyd
Budge, older brother and coach of Don, and Florida’s
Johnny Hendricks, at 23, one of the youngest stars in the
country.

Farlier in the season Strange promoted the importa-
tation of Elwood Cooke and his wife, the former Sarah
Palfrey Fabyan. Cooke has played on the United States
Davis Cup team, and Mrs. Cooke was seven times a
member of the winning team in the National Amateur
Doubles. In an exhibition Mr. and Mrs. Cooke pitted
their skill against that of Dick Pinck and Jack Mallory,
numbers one and two on the Generals’ court squad.

Bobby Riggs and Bobby Harmon played on the courts
near the end of the collegiate season, giving the varsity
another taste of tops in tennis.

Five lettermen: Pinck, Mallory, Barrie, Spindle and
Douglas, supplemented by Kerr, Trice, Bromm, Harrel-
son, Peeples, and Morris composed this year’s varsity
squad.

The season’s record follows:

March 26.232. W: Sly Hobart 0
of Ses, W. & L353) Lehigh $
26 ae W. & ilo Colgate 9
Aotn = 9.0 W.&L. 4 Muhlenburg 5
oe W,& LL. 1°: Michigan. 8
pee ae W.& LL. 5. Manhattan 4
17 es W.&L. 7 George Washington 2
at es) Wee, 2 Maryland 7
2 oa, W.&L. 6 George Washington 3
2S wean W.&L. 4 Davidson 0
OY ice W.&.L. 8 Wake Forest 1
May Lope W.& L. 5. Guilford 2
Bs. Wwe dy A Virginia 5
Be des W.&L. 8 Wake Forest 1
Be. W.& L. 6. Davison 3

Not to be outdone by the intro-
duction into the Lexington ten-
nis world of a galaxy of top-
flight net artists, the Washington and Lee golfers this
spring brought Slammin’ Sam Snead, colorful golf pro-
fessional to the campus.

The big-time Hot Springs pro played on the winning
side in two separate matches with members of the Blue
links squad. W. & L.’s new tennis coach, Fred Perry, par-
ticipated in the second match.

After his Southern Conference championship Blue
Devils had taken a close match from W. & L,. (11%-6%)

Golf

By LATHAM THIGPEN

a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

on the Cascades course at Hot Springs, May 9, Duke
Coach Dumpy Hagler said that with the exception of
LSU, Washington and Lee’s team of four sophomores
was the strongest his men had met in dual competion all
year.

The following day the Blue quartet placed third out
of a field of eight in the Southern Conference tourna-
ment over the same course. The powerful Blue Devils
finished first for the seventh straight year, and NCU
barely edged Coach Cy T'wombly’s foursome by four
strokes for second place.

Coach T'wombly’s foursome of sophomores, Paul
Williams, Bill Noonan, S. 1. Kopald and Bud Bowie
opened the 1941 season with a 171%4-% flattening of Bos-
ton college. In their next match they tied the Apprentice
school 9-9.

In a six-man match with the University of Virginia,
Bill Noonan defeated the Wahoos’ Dixon Brooke, na-
tional intercollegiate champion. Virginia won 5-4.

The Blue golfers hit their stride again with a 15-3
win over Hampden-Sydney and followed with a well-
played 614-11% loss to Duke. Dual matches remain with
the University of Richmond and George Washington.

Plagued with a serious lack of reserve
strength, Washington and Lee’s la-
: crosse team was unsuccessful this year
in its defense of the Dixie league championship as the
gloomiest season in the four-year history of the old
Indian sport here goes on record.

Lacrosse
By Bop STEELE

The original 16 man squad was shot through with 1n-
juries, with Captain Skippy Henderson’s broken finger
keeping him out of three games.

In six contests so far, the Generals have managed to
salvage only one victory, trouncing the University of
Virginia, 7 to 2, before a spring dance crowd. Duke,
North Carolina, Swarthmore, Loyola, and the Washing-
ton Athletic club have defeated the W. and L. team.

The Generals opened the season with a defeat at the
hands of the Washington Athletic club. Henderson broke
his finger. as the Blue team went down by a 5 to 1 score.

The crippled squad then dropped two successive
games to Carolina and Duke after leading both teams
until the final quarter. The Tar Heels won a 6 to 5 de-
cision with a last minute goal, and the Blue Devils
capitalized on the lack of reserves to score four goals in

the final period and defeat the Generals 7 to 4.

Swarthmore turned on the pressure in the last half to
win a 10 to 4 victory. Then, playing for the first time
before a home crowd, the stickmen won their first league
game with a 7 to 2 victory over Virginia. The Generals

[ 38]

  
    
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
  

started out strong against Loyola in Baltimore, py
weakened in the last half to drop a 10 to 7 decision, i

Games with Carolina and Virginia remain on th
schedule, but it is probable that both teams will forfe;
giving a season record of three victories and five defea ;

Henderson, Fd Boyd, and Bayard Berghaus, all-Di 4
league stars, have sparked the team’s play all the way
Larry Galloway’s bruising play has stood out on the de
fense. The lack of an experienced goal-keeper has been.
severe handicap, but sophomore Bob Leake, playing ld
crosse for the first time, has developed nicely and promise
well for next year.

 

The Senior Banquet of 1941
(Continued from page 5) ;

who through the years ought to come here to take yo
place. The characteristic we are most proud of as dis
tinguishing Washington and Lee from all other college |
is the personality of the boys. 1
“Third, the alumni class agent plan is an invitatior
each year for you to give what you are able to make. th
University a better place for those boys who come her
to take your place. | know of no institution in Amerie
which has a more distinguished group of benefactors
When you One you join that circle—a great an
honorable group.” i
Alternating as Seis leader and speaker, Cy Young
introduced the new “Salute to the Generals’ and ther
initiated the boys into the intricacies of the alumni offic
and its system of card files for keeping in touch witl
W. & L. alumni everywhere. 7
Charles I.’ Hobson of Franktfort, Ky., wh@ a
elected president of the class of ’41 for the five years end
ing in 1946, responded to Dr. Gaines’ address on behall
of his classmates. q
Other “permanent officers” elected by the class at the
banquet were Allen T. Snyder of Glenside, Pa., as vice
president, and Dick Day of Louisville, Ky., as secretary
Among the guests at the banquet were Stuart Moore
14, Tennis Coach Fred Perry, and Dick Skeen@a
Johnny Faunce, visiting tennis stars—L. B. W. ;

 

WHAT a newspaper writer described as a Washington
and Lee Field Day occurred in the North Carolina State
Senate last March when Senator J. Hampton Price, 1924
and E. TI’. Sanders, 1927, sponsored the confirmation me
tion on Governor Broughton’s appointment of Fred C
Hunter, 1918, and Professor Harry Tucker, 19103
State College as associate utilities commissioners. The
appointments were unanimously confirmed. 1

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Campus Comment

By KENNETH VAN DE WATER

s tHE University is putting the finishing touches on
A the program for the 192nd Finals of Washington
and Lee, the students are “busy with the books,” scrap-
ping together loose ends and preparing themselves for the
erand time on June 4th, 5th, and 6th.

Highlight of
the Spring activi-
ties on the campus
has been the ar-
rival of tennis ace,
Fred Perry, who
has taken over the
coaching duties of
the tennis team as-
sisted by another
tennis luminary,
John Faunce. Mr.
Perry’s speech in
Lee Chapel short-
ly after his arrival
has resulted in his
being termed the
“best speaker” on
the campus _ this
year. Incidentally,
the students have
really taken Perry to heart as he has been to every fra-
ternity house in school at least twice so far.

The Christian Council sponsored the annual religious
emphasis week in early March when Dr. Henry Crane
of Detroit conducted a three day conference. Ten other
men from churches through the South held class room
discussions and “bull sessions” at the different houses.

For charity purposes only, the Legal Eagles A. C.,
made up of retired wrestling stars and a professor, chal-
lenged the Southern conference wrestling champions to
a match. Funniest bout was between the General’s coach,
Archie Mathis, and the team’s heavyweight, 215 pound
Sillard Ailor... °: Decision was a draw after the two
really went to work when Mathis lost a piece of his leg
to Ailor’s teeth.

ODK sponsored a drive to raise funds for the pur-
chase of a portable surgical unit for Great Britian. The
(rive broke all records as the total amount was collected
In less than a week from student and faculty donations.

 

Voting Precinct No. 1

A week before Spring vacation, the Interfraternity
Council sponsored an informal dance in the gymnasium
for the benefit of the Monogram Club sweater fund. A
tropical setting served as the background for Don Bestor
. And the event netted sev-
eral hundred dol-
lars for the sweat-
er fund.

and his orchestra.

The Universi-
ty Glee Club’s in-
vasion of Wash-
ington and New
York took place
late in April when
75 singers made
a concert tour of
a number of girls’
schools and made
a well received

broadcast “over
NOB Cin: New
Y ork.

Walt Downie’s
cow, pictured on
this page, stole the
campaign show of
the Spring elections. The sign reading, this is no bull... .
Walt Downie for vice-president, must have gone over in
a big way as Downie was successfuly chosen by a large
majority.

The Washington society's annual award for distin-
guished service to the University went, this year, to Al
Fiershman. 9... Fleishman was also named valedictorian
for this year’s graduating class.

A row with VMI nearly resulted a couple weeks ago
when several aspiring W. L.’ers decided to go over to the
Institute and borrow a cannon. The act was completed,
but several burly soldiers came over and quietly retrieved
the machine. c) «. The students involved in the escapade
apologized after the executive committees of the two
schools got together.

An idea thought up by two W. & L,. students became
a reality when seven schools in the state formed a 150-
pound football league at a meeting in Lexington in April.

(Continued on page 12)

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Two Years of}

 

fe our issue of December, 1939, we had the pleasure of
announcing an important new Washington and Lee en-
terprise—the Law Review. Now, almost two years later,
we believe our readers—legal readers in particular—
might be interested in a report of its progress.

Under the able faculty editorship of Professor Charles
P. Light, Jr., followed, since Mr. Light’s call to army
service, by Mr. Theodore A. Smedley whose previous ex-
perience with the //linois Law
Review of Northwestern Uni-
versity makes his services par-
ticularly valuable, the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Review
has increased its circulation and
brought nation-wide attention.
Virtually all the law schools in
the country either subscribe to
it or exchange with us; it has
been widely quoted by the
courts; law firms, interested in
some of the very practical arti-
cles, keep writing for copies.
Two contributions: Karl R.
Bendetson’s “A Discussion of the Soldiers’ and Sailors’
Civil Relief Act of 1940” in the fall issue of 1940; and
“Price Competition as Affected by the Robinson-Pat-
man Act,” by Edward Burling, Jr., and William du Bose
Sheldon, have drawn particular notice. The Review has
been very well received, and it has brought fame to Wash-
ington and Lee and her School of Law.

But these are the least important of the Law Review's
accomplishments. ‘he journal was founded to improve
student work, and on this point, Dean Moreland 1s most
enthusiastic, saying that the amount and quality of work
done by our law students has increased immensely—al-
most startlingly. It is natural that all the boys want to
make the Law Review if they can, and that each strives
toward that end. Those who achieve a place get inestim-
able value from it in the form of training in research and
legal methods.

Any alumnus who happens to know the character of
the present student board: Emery Cox (editor), Fred
Bartenstein, Howard Dobbins, Carter Glass, III, Robert
Hobson, Robert Isrigg, Homer Jones, Lee McKenna,
George McInerney, Frank Bedinger, William Martin,

| 10 |

the Law Review

 

Tucker Hall, Home of the School of Law

John Perry, Bryce Rea, Edmund Schaefer, Lynell Sig
da, Murray Smith, and Forrest Wall, will be aware {
the way this process results in the selection of the best,
the men for the best of the training.

Furthermore, as a result of having a law revi
Washington and Lee is able to place men in better po
tions—positions in big offices where men from schog
which maintain law reviews are always preferred, |

This great advance in
work of the University, hoy
ever, has naturally been unde
taken in spite of difficultie
Our law school is comparatiy
ly a very small one, and th
means alumni, hen
fewer subscribers. Meanwhil

fewer

no law review is self-suppot
ing or is even expected to
The dollar and a half you D3
for a subscription just abo
pays printing costs for you
copies. We don't carry adve
tising, and we get out, throug
the facilities of the Journalism Laboratory Press, directe
by C. Harold Lauck, a finished product far ahead of tl
average in appearance and legibility.

This sort of thing is expensive, but none of us, J
tainly, would be in favor of anything inferior to represef
the dignity of this school. At the present time, subscrif
tions are carrying about one-third of the costs, and
are naturally running a considerable deficit. This coul
be made up if more alumni would subscribe, if mot
friends of alumni could be made acquainted with thé
Review and its excellence, and if individuals wished
contribute (as suggested in the recent bulletin on ot
most pressing needs) to the continued maintenance 0
this endeavor. Those who are especially interested in fh
erowth and improvement of our law school and those wht
want to see the school turn out better and better lawyet
should realize that the Washington and Lee Law Reviet
is a powerful means towards these ends. Without alumm
support it may become difficult for the Review to con
tinue its splendid work. |

   

The last issue for this year will come out about Ju
10th. Now would be a good time to subscribe.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni Briefs

CONOMIC GEOGRAPHY, published quarterly by Clark

University, Worcester, Massachusetts, carries in its
April, 1941 issue, as its LP ae article, a paper on Agri-
cultural Sicily, by David G. Basile, A.B. 1936, David is
now a lecturer in economic geography at the School of
Business, Columbia University, where he has completed
most of the requirements for the Ph.D. He received his
M.A. at Columbia in 1939, for which he prepared a thesis
on agricultural practices in Mexico. He was recently
oranted a “Grant in Aid” scholarship for work in South
i iierica from the Social Science Research Council. He
will go to South America in November.

 

Dr. Joun N. Tuomas, 1924, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, resigned his pastorate of Grace
Covenant Church, Richmond, Virginia, last fall to be-
come professor of theology at Union Theological Semi-
nary, Richmond, Virginia.

 

Rurus C. Bowman, 1911, was the winner of the Col-
lins cup given for general agency proficiency 1n the Roan-
oke agency of New England Mutual Life Insurance
Company. Mr. Bowman, at the end of 1940, ranked as
78th leading agent among the company’s more than 1,500
agents.

 

J. Frep Coox, 1933, junior partner of Hamilton-
Cook Hardware of Waynesboro, Virginia, was recently
elected president of the Waynesboro Retail Merchants
Association.

 

BEFoRE a crowded courtroom, on April 16, Circuit
Judge Edwin C. Caffrey, 1909, was sworn in for his third
seven-year term as Judge of the Essex County Circuit
Court of Newark, N. J. It marked his 20th year on the
bench. Congratulatory addresses were given by State
Senator Homer C. Zink and others. Judge Caffrey was
appointed a common pleas judge in 1921 and _ re-ap-
pointed in 1936. The following year he was named a
Circuit Court judge and has been reappointed twice.

 

James A. Henpgrson, 1929, completed his medical
course and is now chief surgeon of the SS Manhattan of
the United States Lines. He listened to the broadcast of
Fancy Dress while his ship was stranded on the sand
bar off Palm Beach, and genially reported himself as one
of the shipwrecked sons of this institution.

JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR., 1912, sent the Alumni office
a letter from 1, Grosvenor Square, London, suggesting
a note saying that, “Jim Somerville is still living in Lon-
don, where he is just now Acting Commercial Attache 1n
the American Embassy.” More than that, however, Mr.
Somerville gives reports of a “‘quiet” period in London
(he wrote on February 4th) when the bombs were not
dropping quite as frequently as usual. His classmates and
others, we are sure, would admire his calm under the
punishment London has been suffering.

 

IsAAC SAMUEL WAMPLER, 1906, a graduate also of
Peabody Normal College in 1891, has been mentioned as
“foremost among Peabody’s alumni” by the Alumni
News of the George Peabody College for ‘Teachers,
Nashville, Tennessee. For many years he has been super-
intendent of the ‘Tennessee School for the Blind at Nash-
ville.

 

Ropert Lee TELForp, 1922, is General Superintend-
ent of Mason and Hanger at the Radford Ordnance
Works. He was born May 8, 1899, at Lewisburg, West
Virginia, spent two years at Washington and Lee, after
training for a commissioned officer’s rank with the Army.
Then for two years he was Assistant Resident Engineer
for the Louisville and Nashville Railroad.

In 1931 Mr. Telford was the Assistant General Super-
intendent of the first tube of the Lincoln Tunnel and in
1933 was the Engineer and Superintendent in charge of
coffer dams and the Superintendent in charge of construc-
tion of the Grand Coulee Dam. In 1936 he was sent back
to New York as the General Superintendent of the sec-
ond tube for the Lincoln Tunnel; then to Boston as Job
Manager for Silas Mason Company on a tunnel for the
Metropolitan District Commission.

Mr. Telford has two hobbies: golf and horse-racing.
He is married and lives in Radford.

 

FRANK T. Parkkr, JR., 1929, has been chosen Acting
Chairman of the newly formed Waynesboro, Virginia,
chapter of Federal Union, Incorporated.

 

Mrs. LIttig JENNINGS MEAD, widow of the Reverend
Mr. George Otis Mead and for many years housemother
for the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at Washington and
Lee, died on March 24th at Clifton Springs, New York.
Several members of the fraternity, together with numbers

Ply

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of undergraduates who knew Mrs. Mead affectionately
s “Weesie,”’ attended the services in Richmond. The
rites were conducted by the Reverend Mr. Beverley Mun-
ford Boyd, 1919, an alumnus of Washington and Lee.

 

Puit FE. CHaAppett, 1919, was recently chosen as
president of the Planters Bank and Trust Company of
Hopkinsville, Kentucky. He has been with this bank
since 1924, when he became a member of the ‘Trust De-
partment. Mr. Chappell is also a director of the Louis-
ville branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Lous.
He is regarded as one of the most popular and efficient
bankers of Western Kentucky.

 

Marion Epwarp Porter, 1933, recently enlisted in
the Army for a three-year period and somewhat amazed
the officers by explaining that he holds the degrees of
M.A. and Ph.D. as well as his Bachelor’s from Wash-
ington and Lee, that he knows five languages thoroughly,
and that he had been teaching languages at Northwestern
University in Memphis. He was immediately assigned to
the Intelligence Unit of the 6th Corps Area.

 

SHERWOOD W. Wisk, 1932, has announced a partner-
ship with Barron C. Ricketts for the general practice of
law under the firm name of Ricketts and Wise. Their
offices will be in the Deposit Guaranty Bank Building,
Jackson, Mississippi.

 

W. S. Enciesy, 1911, was elected president of the
Roanoke, Virginia, Bar Association on March 28.

 

Jack Dancter, 1940, has enlisted with the Flying
Cadet Corps and is stationed for preliminary training at
Albany, Georgia.

 

Weddings and Engagements

Weppinc Betts rung for our alumni are making
a positive racket this spring, and in the midst of the din,
we should like to send hearty congratulations to the
couples who were recently married, as follows:

1929
ALLEN BENNER MorcAn to Elsie Hunter Wetter on
March 26th at the Second Presbyterian Church of Mem-
phis, ‘Tennessee.

1930
WaLTtEeR Preston BartLe to Mrs. Florence Boyce
Britton on February 21st at the home of the bride’s sister
in Memphis, Tennessee.

| 12 |

   
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

1931

Lawton CaLHoun to Mary Anne Train on the 254i |
of February in St. John’s Church, Savannah, Georgia, —

1952

CHARLIE Lonc to Miss Gertrude Bourne of Dallas,
Texas, on January 25th. ‘

1934

JoHN ALEXANDER (‘Bub’) HANLEy, III, to Virginia |
Huckaby on March 29th in Guntersville, Alabama.

1935

Joun Burton NicwHotson, Jr., to Mildred May :
Livsey, the wedding to be held in June at Carlisle, Penn-
sylvania. :

1936

JoHn Wattack Davirs to Mary Herbert Fulgh
on February 15th in Washington, D. C.

1937 4

WALTER GrEorGE (“TEx”) Leur, JR., to Betty” Jane
Galt on the 20th of February in the Laurel fee Meth-
odist Church, San Antonio, Texas.

1939 7

GEORGE BRUMMEL FRANK to Jane Straus on Mar n
Sth in Richmond, Virginia. 4

JoseEpH Herrman Ocusik, Jr., to Frances Mary
Goodwin at “The Little Church Around the Corner,
New York, on Christmas Day.

WiLti1aAmM WARNER Brown to Betty Jean Babcock
April 4th at the Epworth Methodist Church of Tole
Ohio.

1940

BreENT Harrison Farser, JR., to Bettie Rose Fielll
on the 15th of March in St. William’s Chapel, Ten Hills
Baltimore, Maryland. ’

RicHarpD WINFIELD BorssKAU to Barbara Lee Hig:
gins on February 22nd in the Calvary Episcopal Chuch,
Front Royal, Virginia. ;

 

Campus Comment
(Continued from page 9) a

Roanoke, Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon, William
and Mary, Virginia and VMI in addition to Washington
and Lee will play games next fall. 150-pound ball is @
flashy game with plenty of action, and Virginia fans hava
a treat in store for next fall. 4
From a student’s standpoint, Finals will be a much
better time if the campus is swarming with alumni. Can t
we expect you? 4

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Louisville

Agpout 56 members of the Louisville Chapter, par-
wives, sweethearts, and prospective students, met
on January 20th at the Brown Hotel. President George
surks presided, and as new ofhcers the following were
chosen: Oldham Clarke, president; Fielden Woodward,
vice-president ; and Ernest Walker, secretary-treasurer.

There were talks by Edward A. Dodd, Professor Mil-
burn of the Male High School, Robert P. Hobson, and
Fielden Woodward who introduced the chapter’s guest-
speaker, Professor F. J. Barnes, II, one of Washington
and Lee’s teachers of government and favorite after-

ents,

dinner speakers.

North Texas

On February 21st, the members of the North Texas
Chapter gathered in Fort Worth to witness some of the
moving pitcures of Washington and Lee scenes which
Cy Young had forwarded, and to elect officers. The latter
are: John M. Stemmons, president, and Norman Crozier,
secretary-treasurer. A most pleasant evening was enjoyed
by some 37 attendants, among whom were:

Mr. and Mrs. Norman R. Crozier, Jr., Dallas; Mr.
and Mrs. Pinkney Grissom, Dallas; Mr. and’ Mrs. J. L.
Lancaster; Mr. and Mrs. S$. W. Lancaster; Mr. and Mrs.
George D. McClure; Mr. EF. A. Nesbitt; Mr. and Mrs. J.
M. Stemmons; Mr. and Mrs. Storey Stemmons; Mr. and
mes. |. G. Stitt, Dennison, Texas; Mr and Mrs. RL.
McKinney, Jr., Durant, Oklahoma; Mr. and Mrs. D. S.
MacDonald, Jr., Fort Worth.

Mr. and Mrs. Rudy Copeland, Jr.; Mr. and Mrs.
Gaylord J. Stone; Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Thomas; Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Power; Mr. and Mrs. C. S. McCall; Mr. G. E.
Miller, Jr., Mabank, Texas; Mr. P. G. Hervey, Abilene,
Texas; and Mr. Banard D. Bryan.

New York

Tur Tenth Annual Dinner Dance of the New York
Chapter was held on March 21st in the Rainbow Room of
the R. C. A. Building. The attendance numbered 104, in-
cluding alumni and their wives and friends, who enjoyed
a brilliant evening, the feature of which was the introduc-
tion of Thornton W. Allen’s new Washington and Lee
Song, “Salute to the Generals.” For a fuller account of
the new song and its effect on the gathering, see the
article elsewhere in this issue.

Gulf Stream

AT A MEETING in the Seven Seas Restaurant in
Miami, the alumni of South Florida gathered on April
Ist for a meeting to which Cy Young and Raymon John-
son, Washington and Lee professor of Law, brought news
of the University. The chapter elected Paul D. Barnes
president, Paul R. Scott vice-president, and Luther L.
Copley secretary. The speech of Professor Johnson, who
had previously addressed the Florida State Bar Associa-
tion, was especially well received.

Among those in attendance were the following :

Frank G. Almon, Jn, 345 Paul Di-Barns 17 WE
Blanton, ‘11; George. IT. Clark,’ 25; Luther L. Copley.
25; William Harrison Daniel, 38; R. B. Gautier, Jr.,
OL, Rel: Hall, 32 Charles J. Holland, ’28- Mi Huad
son, 90-92; Hugh 'S. Larrick, (03; William HH; Malone
02, Alired+ Lee McCarthy. 23.) Joka. A. Meare: 705.
W. F. Parker, 20; Wallace Ruff, 14; Oliver P. Searing,
vee, perhard Spector, (64> |e Pwyian iO: 1k
Wagner, ’28; J. Emmet Wolfe, Jr., ’29; Bernard R. Ken-
nedy, ‘23, of Washington, D. C.

Cumberland Valley

THE Cumberland Valley Chapter, which includes
members from cities in Maryland, Virginia, and West
Virginia, met on March 14th for a banquet at the Hotel
Alexander in Hagerstown, Maryland. Dr. Gaines spoke
about the present state of the university with special
reference to the effect of the war on student needs. Secre-
tary Young also spoke. Omer T. Kaylor, president of the
chapter, presided.

Among the almost seventy present were:

Waynesboro: James W. McKown, W. Gordon Weag-
ly. Martinsburg: J: B. Hoke; Herbert Ey Hannis; Gil-
bert C. McKown; Charles L. Beall; J. Nevin Kilmer;
William White; Leo R. Hack; H. Marshall Homer: Dr.
James K. Guthrie; William C. Morton; Norman J. Bar-
rick. Brunswick: Alfred R. Jones; Harry George, Jr.

Frederick: Judge Edward 'T. Delaplaine; William T.
Delaplaine ; Robert C. McCardell; George T. Myers; J.
Malcolm McCardell; Richard M. Radcliffe: Manuel M.
Weinberg; Dr. John S. Derr. Hagerstown: Samuel C.
eirite; Dr teaac Et Shupp; ©. Wells Lithes DP Ray-
mond Snively; Merle G. Kaetzel; Omer T. Kaylor; Ed-
win H. Miller; John D. Zentmyer; Donald G. Kaylor;

[13 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

George M. Bohman, Jr.; K. Weldon Heatwole; M. B.
Ridenour; Neil wie

Charles Town: Frank J. Beckwith; the Reverend Mr.
C. Irving Lewis. Chambersburg: Robert B. Shively.

Lewisburg, Pennsylvania: Grover C. Gabriel.

Jacksonville

SoME thirty alumni were present for the annual meet-
ing of the Jacksonville chapter on April 3, held at the
George Washington Hotel.

The meeting was addressed by Dr. Raymon T. John-
son of the law faculty and Cy Young, alumni secretary.

The following officers were elected for another year:
Rhydon Latham, ’28, and Jack Ball, ’32, president and
secretary respectively.

Cincinnati

WattER McDonacp, 1910, was host to the Cincinnati
alumni at his home in Indian Hills on March 10, with
Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of the University as
guest of honor. ‘here were thirty alumni present.

It was a delightful occasion, and the guests enjoyed
the hospitality of Walter’s beautiful and commodious
home.

Danville

Tue Old Belt Alumni Chapter met on March 7 at
the Country Club Inn, Danville, Virginia. Cy Young,
alumni secretary, and Lea Booth, publicity director for
athletics, represented the University and made a report
on University affairs.

Forty-five alumni were present. The following officers
were elected: Jack L. Neal, ’24, Danville, president; Bill
Stone, ’33, Martinsville, vice-president ; and Bill Taylor,
‘2/4 Denville, secretary.

Tampa

ON THE OCCASION of the Florida State Bar Associa-
tion meeting the annual breakfast gathering of Washing-
ton and Lee lawyers was held at the Tampa Terrace
Hotel on March 9. Washington and Lee lawyers from all
parts of the state, who were present for the Bar meet-
ing attended the breakfast and were addressed by Dr.
Raymon ‘TT. Johnson of the law faculty. There were forty
alumni present.

Washington and lee may well be proud of its legal
representatives in the State of Florida.

Arrangements were in charge of Henry Tilman, ’06;
and Kenneth I. McKay presided.

[ 14]

   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
   

Philadelphia

SIXTY ALUMNI, their wives and friends, held an on
thusiastic meeting in the Red Room of the Bellevue- Strat.
ford Hotel on George Washington’s birthday, February
22nd, honoring President Francis P. Gaines, as well ag
our great benefactor. ;

Dr. Gaines made an inspiring address on Washington,
and moving pictures of campus scenes were shown and
enjoyed by all present. q

Lynwood Rk. Holmes, 1900, president of the chaptel :
presided. 4

Atlanta

WASHINGTON AND LEE alumni of Atlanta met for 3
their annual meeting on April 21 at the Piedmont Driving
Club. Twenty-five local alumni and their wives were
present to hear an address by President Gaines. 4

Officers elected for the coming year were as follows:
Alex IM. Hitz; president, Henry Pcepies: vice= president,
John Kell Martin, secretary, and T. Hal Clarke, treasurell

Richmond

On March 19 alumni of Richmond gathered in the
Blue Room of Ewart’s Cafeteria for their semi-annual.
meeting. Dean Gilliam represented the University, and
George Haw, 1904, president of the chapter, presided.

Roanoke

Wirn an attendance of about 101 alumni the Roan-
oke Chapter met on February 26th at the Hotel Roanoke.

President Gaines and Cy Young were the principal
speakers of the evening, featured also by the presentation
of Commemorative Plates to Louis N. Hock, James C.
Long, and Mayor Walter W. Wood—as attendance
prizes; and the reading of a poem by Leigh Hanes im
answer to Germany's war song, “We're marching against
Fngland.” ;

Earl Fitzpatrick presided at the meeting which elected
Edward H. Ould president, John Strickler vice- presi-
dent, Martin P. Burks secretary-treasurer, and Courtney
King representative on the Alumni Canc 1

Among those present were the following: — _ ;

R. B. Adams, ’13; Linwood Atkinson, ’30; Bill Bag-
by, 38; Phillip L. Baird, ’14; Lea Booth, ’40; Rufus Ce
Bowman, 11: B.-V, Boyer, 18: L,. J. Boge 09; Tom
R. Bryant, ’39; Paul C. Buford, ’13-715; C. T. Bay
25; John Edward Burwell, ’95-’96; G. W. Chaney, Jta
40; Geo. W. Chaney, 11; John D. Copenhaver, “39m
Robert M. Curtis, 16; Salomon Diamond, ’40; Richard

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

a

mt. Edwards, 35; George T. Ellis, ’27; J. T. Engleby, Jr.,
0: W. S. Engleby, °11; F. Fallon, 92-93; 5. L. Fellers,
13: Earl A. Fitzpatrick, ’29; Isadore Forman, ’12; Rob-
ee A. Fulwiler, Jr., 25; Wm. A, Gibbons, Jr ’2Z5; 8. 3.
Guerrant, Jr., "23; Leigh B. Hanes, 20; J. Meade Harris,
me. Claude Harrison, jr..734))). D. bobbie, Jr... 0).;
I. :). Hobbie, III, ’37; Harry H. Hock, ‘24; L,. N: Hock,
ms: [co 5. Howard, 25; Cet. Siunter, 153. John. ©.
James, ‘07; Verne D. Johnson, Jr., ‘O/- 00) Rew. Kime,
16: W. Courtney King, ’21; Kark Kregloe, ’10.

Henry Lee, “26 e B. Lemon, 1h; Rdw.:i.- Match,
30: Samuel A. Martin,; W. L. Martin, 36; Morris L.
Masinter, 714-16; H. FE. Mayhew, °14; Deland R. Mc-
Clure, ’36; C. S. McNulty, ’02-’04; Charles S. McNulty,
a; °37; Ralph Wo Malls. 30 WoN Nonter 1a.
Beoomaw, 0/7; 5. H; Ould, 29: Chester D; Palmer, Ir. ;
m xX. Parsons; 21: ho W. -Poindexster. 04> Clifford
Btrouse Rice, 323 WD: Richardson, 25°: Harold G.
@obertson; Walter Scott; 24: Landon +. Smith; 25;
=. D. Stokes, ’?96; John Strickler, 727; E. Norred Trinkle;
meorce I. Vogel, 23; tatham B. Weber, (37) Kyle M.
Weeks; James Huston White, 935; E. T. Whitehead,
9: Randolph G. Whittle, (24; F; Cameron Wiley, Jr.,
39; Chas. W. Wilkinson, ’°38; Mosby J. Williams, ’38;
Charles O. Wills, 38; and Walter W. Wood, ’25.

St. Louis

THE St. Louis Washington and Lee Alumni Associa-
tion held a banquet and meeting at the Bellerive Country
Club on the evening of May 6, 1941. The principal speak-
er was Dean of Men, Frank J. Gilliam, who, after meet-
ing with the Louisville alumni on the previous evening
spent the day visiting a number of St. Louis County
high schools, and met with us in the evening. The retiring
president of our local association, Joseph Rk. Long, acted
as toastmaster. The guests included the local alumni and
some of their parents, and also the parents of some of
the St. Louis students now at Washington and Lee.

Dean Gilliam made an inspiring talk covering the im-
provements in the buildings and equipment, the changes,
both actual and contemplated, in the athletic activities,
the part Washington and Lee is taking in the preparation
for national defense, and many other matters of interest.

At the close of the meeting, an election of officers
was held, and the following were elected to serve during
the ensuing year:

William C. Edwards, president; Tom C. Atwood,
Vice-president; Landon Y. Jones, secretary-treasurer.

The guest list included the following: Mr. and Mrs. F.
M. Robinson; Andrew H. Baur, Jr., and his mother, Mrs.
Andrew Baur =. Samuel) Pos wicChesney, Ir, and his

mother, Mrs. Samuel P. McChesney ; Andrew H. Moore,
Dr. Sherwood Moore, Mr. and Mrs. John L. Patterson,
Richard B. Bradley, Mrs. John Barrie, mother of Jack
Barrie, 42; Mr. and Mrs. J. Carroll Walker, parents of
Jimmie Walker, ’43; Dr. and Mrs. Edwin C. Ernest, par-
ents of Edwin C. Ernest, Jr., and Roland P. Ernest, ’44;
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford Day, parents of Clifford Day, Jr.,
and Miss Martha Anne Day; O. H. Peckham, Wm. P.
Diggs, Mr. and Mrs. James V. Reynolds, Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph R. Long, David F. Crossen, F. M. Robinson, Jr.,
Tom C. Atwood, William C. Edwards, Joseph McL.
Stewart, Calvin East, Richard J... Payne, Jr. Landon Y.
Jones, Joe Edwards, all of St. Louis. Belleville, Illinois,
was represented by Mr. and Mrs. Albert M. Fowler,
Walter E. Weidmann and Homer W. Weidmann. We
were pleased to have as guests Mr. and Mrs. J. Soule
Smith, and their son Chad Smith, who is entering Wash-
ington and Lee next fall.

Announcement was made of a joint picnic to be held
on June 1 by the St. Louis Alumni Associations of Dart-
mouth and Washington and Lee.

 

A New W. and L. Song

(Continued from page 4)

ham, °14, “College Friendships,” “Carry Me Back to Old
Virginny,” “Swanee River,” and “Dixie.”’

Members of the Washington and Lee Glee Club,
anxious to advance their own and the college’s interests,
will sell this collection and reap the profit from it. Fur-
thermore, Mr. Allen has offered to give half his own roy-
alties from the sale of the new song to the Glee Club, a
generous act which should help to give this already suc-
cessful society further advantages.

No college can boast such a song as we all know the
“Swing” to be, but with the addition of “Salute to the
Generals,’ our musical fame cannot be questioned. The
“Salute,” in Mr. Allen’s words is “to Washington and
Lee men everywhere.” And from everywhere will come
the reply—*A Salute to a grand new song.”

 

Our Cover

An unposed picture of students lounging on
front campus between classes, as is the usual
custom in. the spring. Photo by Tom Fleming,
1942.

 

 

 

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

1876

HENRY STRATTON, retired wholesale grocer and cot-
ton factor of Memphis, Tennessee, died on February 7,
after a long illness. For many years he had been head of
the firm of Stratton and Gover, formerly owned by his
father.

Mr. Stratton, a bachelor, leaves two sisters.

1880

On March 19 in Charles Town, West Virginia,
CAPTAIN Henry CLay GETZENDANNER died at his home,
aged 8O years.

Captain Getzendanner attended Shepherd College be-
fore taking his law degree here. During his long career in
Charles Town he was state senator, member of the local
draft board during the first World War, and postmaster.

His wife survives him as well as a son and two sisters.

1889

Rusy Larroon, former governor of Kentucky, died
on March 1 at his home in Madisonville. He was 72 years
old. :

Governor Laffoon began his education in Law at
Columbia College (now George Washington) in Wash-
ington, D. C., but completed his work and took his degree
at Washington and Lee.

He went early into politics and served as County At-
torney of Hopkins County and Circuit Judge of the same.
His gubernatorial term (1931 through 1935) was marked
by bitter factional fights, centering chiefly around a pro-
posed sales-tax which Governor Laffoon favored as a de-
pression measure. During his term he created more
“Kentucky Colonels” and granted more pardons than any
previous governor had done.

In the words of Senator Alben Barkley, ‘““His death
is....a serious loss to the public life of the state... He
was a noble character.”

He is survived by his wife, three daughters, and two
sisters.

1911

Watton Ropert Lawson Tay or, former mayor of
Norfolk, Virginia, died on March 22nd from the effects
of infantile paralysis which had afflicted him early in life
and had been always a serious physical handicap to him.

He worked several years for the old New York, Phil-
adelphia & Norfolk railway before saving enough money
to enter the Washington and Lee School of Law. After

[ 16 ]

     
  
    
 
   

graduation he built up an extensive law practice. He did
not enter politics until 1930 when he was selected to ruy
for the city council on a “Businessman’s ‘Ticket.” Hig
term as mayor covered the worst years of the depression,
but Mr. Taylor struggled mightily to give his city g
courageous and efficient administration which produced
many improvements now appreciated by his fellow towns-
men.

Surviving him are Mrs. Taylor, a son and daughter,
and a grandson.

1918

PauLt Hamirtron Jones died on February 27 at the
United States Veterans Hospital in New Orleans. Until
stricken with illness a year ago, he had been an executive
in several department stores and was superintendent of
the Maison Blanche store in New Orleans at the time of
his death. At one time, in 1917, he was the youngest
commissioned officer in the United States Army. After
the war, he was discharged with the rank of captain. '
His wife, a son, and four brothers survive him.

7

 

New Arrivals

Howarp M. Evpgr, 1922, and Mrs. Elder announced
the birth of a son, Howard M., Jr., born last January.

THomas C. Situ, class agent for the Law Class of
1935, announces that the most important event of his—
life occurred on the 28th of April, the advent of a son.

 

Joun CuHartkEs SmiruH, 1931, is second vice-presi-
dent of the Northern Trust Company, Chicago. ‘

 

KennetH Gorpon Dustin, 1937, has been com- |
missioned an Ensign in the Naval Reserve and awarded ©
the gold wings of a Naval Aviator. ;

 

Kr WititAms, 1915, now superintendent of the Du
Pont Rayon Plant in Waynesboro, Virginia, recently re-—
ceived the company’s 25-year award, and was elected to 1
the city school-board.

 

T. Russett CarHer, 1908, a prominent attorney in —
Winchester, Virginia, and former Virginia state senator, ~
has been named president of the eighteenth annual Shen- ~
andoah Apple Blossom Festival. |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1886

THE REVEREND Mr. JOHN
Vv. McCaLt, after 47 years in
the active P resbyterian ministry,
retired on June first and will
live in his home town, Weather-

 

ford, Texas.

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us .
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally imaccu-
rate. If so, we hereby apologize.

1899

JouHN Wawnroy Garrow has
been actively engaged, first, in
the cotton industry and later in
in his home town,

rc
Etta Marie Brady, also a native

real estate,

Houston, ‘Texas. married

 

 

1892

Wa. C. (“Levr’) Morron is Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Berkeley County, Martinsburg, West Virginia.

Dr. E. L. GREEN is head of the Department of Ancient
Languages, University of South Carolina, Columbia,

South C arolina.

Wittiam G. WiGLEswortH is Vice-President of the
Wiglesworth Tobacco Warehouse Company, Cynthiana,
Kentucky.

1893

Dr. James B. Butirrr is head of the Pathological
Laboratory, University of North Carolina, Chapel Fill,
North Carolina.

1896

C. CaBeLL Turwiter and his wife have a delightful
and hospitable home, called Brushwood, about two miles
from [,exington.

H. V. Canter has just completed thirty-five years of
service as professor of classical languages at the Uni-
versity of Illinois, Urbana, Ilinois.

Wittram MELLIN BaLLou is practicing law at 2 East

“ev
~

Lexington Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

1898

Cot. WARREN WHITESIDE is still at the
Army Remount Station, Front Royal, Vir-
ginia. His residence address is Four Winds,
Manor Road, Front Royal, Virginia.

Tuomas C. Bow tine lives in Charles
Town, West Virginia.

Norman §. FitzHucH is a Certified
Public Accountant with offices in the Kana-
wha Banking and Trust Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

wl bull
wil il

  
   
  

a a

 

Houstonian, and they have three
children: two daughters, and a son now in his third year
at Washington and Lee. Both the daughters are married
and there are three grandchildren.

CoLonEL ArtTHUR M. Surpp lives at 2350 Granada
Way South, St. Petersburg, Florida. He was a visitor to
Lexington during last summer and his friends enjoyed
seeing him very much.

H. St. G. Tucker CARMICHAEL, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, active and enthusiastic alum-
nus, reports a grandson,,H. St. G..T. Carmichael, 111,
who will enter the University in 1956.

1902

Ropert O. CrocKert is a member of the law firm of
Crockett & Gillespie, Tazewell, Virginia.

OsMAN E.. Swar’z, has for the past twenty-two years
been out of the general practice of law, devoting sub-
stantially all of his time to two or three corporate clients.
His offices are in the Union Building, Charleston, West
Virginia. He says: ‘To all the members of the Class of
1902, whether in the law school or out of it, | send greet-
ings and best wishes and hope that any who
may be in the vicinity of Charleston will
look me up.”

1903

D. R. PHELPs is practicing Dentistry in
Lynchburg, Virginia, 809 Church Street.

B. B. SHIVELY is practicing law in Ma-
rion, Indiana.

   

Dr. JoHn W. Warner is practicing his
profession—surgery—in Washington, D.C.

,

— B. F. Comps is a member of the law
firm of Combs & Combs, First National

Bank Building, Prestonsburg, Kentucky.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

D. V. Gururte is head of the Division of Physics,
Louisiana State University, University, Louisiana.

1904

Dr. Martraew T. MacCrurg is Dean of the College
of Liberal Arts and Sciences, University of Ilinots.

GrorcE G. WortTHEN is Vice-President of W. B.
Worthen Company, Bankers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

FE. W. PoinpEXTER has been Attorney for and Direc-
tor in the Colonial National Bank of Roanoke, Virginia,
for a number of years, and is now Vice-President of the
same bank. He is practicing law under the firm name of
Poindexter and Poindexter, in the Shenandoah Life
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He is a Vestryman in the
Episcopal Church.

1906

R. B. Sprnpie is Judge of the Corporation Court,
Norfolk, Virginia.

CraupE P. Licn’ is Assistant Prosecuting Attorney
of Wood County, West Virginia, where he has been for
four years. He was married March, 1939, to Helen Mc-
Gregor Wilson.

L&o WEINBERG is practicing law in Frederick, Mary-
land,

J. Rozert Switzer’ is Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Rockingham County, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

1907

V. GrILMorE IDEN is secretary of the American Insti-
tute of Steel Construction, Executive Offices, 101 Park
Avenue, New York.

Harry AXELROTH is a member of the law firm of
Axelroth and Porteous, 12 South Twelfth Street, Phila-
delphia.

1908

FREDERICK FLourNoy MILLsaAps is a banker in Mon-
roe, Louisiana. His son is in medical school.

Puit Pace is still a journalist with that leading mid-
west financial newspaper, The Chicago Journal of Com-
merce. Phil has recently been elected a member of the
Board of Trustees of the Evanston High School and has
two boys, one of whom should be ready to enter Wash-
ington and I,ee in the fall of 1941.

Witiiam M. Paxton is City Engineer in Florence,
Alabama. He has a boy and a girl.

Bem a

WiLtiAM FRANK Riser is with The New Sabinag
Company, Ltd., at Cloete, Coahuila, (Old) Mexico. q

ANDREW GorbOoN Briccs has retired to the life of a 1
chicken fancier at the old homestead at Locust Dale, Vir-—
ginia. He is gradually getting over a spell of sickness and ;
is able to sit up and take notice. j
H. Lewis Brown is an attorney-at-law in New York :
City. 4

JaMEs C. (CLIVVIE) CARPENTER is running a bank |
in Clifton Forge, Virginia. Clivvie has been blessed with —
three children and his eldest boy graduated from Wash-—
ington and Lee in 1938. His youngest boy is a cadet at 3
Mossy Creek Moore’s Greenbriar Military School at_
Lewisburg, West Virginia. ]

Dr. Ratpeu A. Dopp is a dental surgeon at Chase City, ]
Virginia. q

Wm. SNEAD GRAHAM still has his office in the Citizens |
Bank Building in Norfolk. q

Dr. James K. Gururie is practicing at 118 West
Martin Street in Martinsburg, West Virginia. 4

1909 /

WaLKER MacCork_é KENNEDy is the Assistant Enea
gineer of the town of South Charleston, West Virginia. —
He says his son, Walker, who is almost nine years old, 4
is already planning to go to Washington and Lee. 4

THE REVEREND Mr. F. D. Stevens has recently given
up his charge in Sweetwater, Tennessee, and accepted aq
call to a church in Corbin, Kentucky. He has two daugh-
ters now ready for college. q

5S. Gwynw Cog is head of the department of History ;
and Political Science at Florida Southern College. q
CHarces S. GLascow is practicing law in Lexington, {
Virginia. 4
1910

JosepH R. Bracksurn is a Mining Engineer in _
Charleston, West Virginia. His office is at 1714 McClung
Street. His son, Jack, graduated in June a year ago from”
the U. S. Naval Academy and is now on the U. S. Sm
lexas: i
G. R. Fortson is practicing medicine in Susanville,
California. }
Raymonp Kenny is with the Social Security Board |
located in the Exponent Building, Clarksburg, West Vit-)
ginia. His home is in Grafton.
O. A. CHIDESTER lives at 3080 C Street, San Diegoy
California. He was married last spring. |

[ 18 |

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1911
CpemENTS McMULLEN is a Major in the Air Corps,
Duncan Field, San Antonio, ‘Texas. He has been all over
the world, with the exception of Africa, and has had many
‘nteresting experiences. He is Chief Engineer of the Re-

pair Depot at Duncan Field.

Witpur L. Titpgn heads the law firm of Tilden,
Hays, and Walker, of Orlando, Florida. He served as
County Solicitor from 1914 to 1920 and from 1924 to
1929 as County Judge. He has an extensive law prac-
tice and is active in the citrus fruit industry, having been
president, in 1936, of the Florida Citrus
Exchange, the second largest marketing
organization in the world. He has two
daughters, one of whom is married.

Joun Tuomas Warson recently
took office as State Attorney General for
Florida. Facing several difficult cases re-
garding Ilorida lands, Mr. Watson an-
nounced an innovation by extending the
services of his office to County At-
torneys, thus straightening out a legal
situation which has been muddled in the
past. Mr. Watson’s home is in Tampa.

TK yg

bene reo
TN TRL

M. E. KurtH is a member of the law
frm of Andrews, Kelley, Kurth & Campbell, Gulf Build-
ing, Houston, Texas.

Dana Hopcson, whom we last heard of as a consul
in Berlin, was moved to Italy, where his consulate in
Naples was one of three closed as a reprisal for the ship-
seizures in the United States last March.

J. Paxton Barcray is manager of the Pure Oil Com-
pany, 35 Kast Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

ORANGE RICHARDSON is still with the Duquesne Lum-
ber Company, Columbia Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania.

1912

ALLEN McDoweE tt is still teaching at Kent School,
Kent, Connecticut. As a hobby he has designed or re-
modeled some thirty or forty houses in that part of New
England in the past few years. In the summer he sells
real estate, builds, and manages to keep very busy. He
has three daughters, all about grown.

J. O. Hopexin has been practicing dentistry in War-
renton, Virginia, since eraduating from the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in 1912, except for two years spent in
Bance. His son ds in his second year at V.M.I., and he
has a daughter, twelve, in high school.

     
 

Mw
Sy a s\--
ae . ‘ es

    
 

ee
i

T’. B. Harrison is manager of the Charlotte, North
Carolina, branch of the Investors Syndicate of Minne-
apolis, Minnesota. He is married and has two children.

W. L. (“Pin”) Wesster writes on the stationery of
the New York State Golf Association of whose board of
directors he is a member, but he gives no news of him-
self. His address is 1044 State Street, Schenectady, New
York.

Byron L. Battarp, member of the law firm of
Shields, Ballard, Jennings & ‘Taber, Lansing, Michigan,
has been retained by the new Attorney General of Michi-

AW gan, Herbert J. Rushton, as one of his
‘i wt

IST | assistants. He will act in the capacity of
« vr 4 ~

legal adviser to Governor Van Wagoner.

RANDOLPH Pipes is farming 3,400
acres of land near Clinton, Louisiana,
and developing some property in Baton
Rouge.

a THE REVEREND Mr. Harry S. Cor-
Ree : FEY, D.D., is Minister of the Granberry

 
 
 
 

= SS SSS SSS Ai, <a, i : is
= aM eldtumae- ~ Nlemorial Methodist Church, Covington,
Sel } poets :
ee

= Virginia.
a FE. R. MorEsworrn is secretary-
Bath :
io treasurer of the Teachout Sash, Door &

Glass Company of Michigan. His address is Brandt &
Wyoming Streets, Detroit, Michigan.

C. L&E OrDEMAN is still in the pulp and paper busi-
ness as vice-president and treasurer of the Mead Sales
Company, 230 Park Avenue, New York.

1913

PAuL Graby is an Attorney and Counsellor at Law,
Smithfield, North Carolina. His home is in Kenley, North
Carolia.

BERNIE HARPER is a member of the Yantis-Harper
Company, Auto Supplies, Fort Smith, Arkansas. His son
was a member of the 1939 graduating class at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Eprson C. JALONICK is in the insurance business in
Dallas, Texas.

Epwarp W. L&& is in the insurance business, 175
Fifth Avenue, New York. He is still the very active sec-
retary of the New York Alumni Association.

1914

VANN M. Matruews is practicing medicine in Char-
lotte, North Carolina, at 824 East Trade Street.

[19]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

SAM LAUGHLIN is president of the Wheeling Tile
Company, manufacturers of floor tile, Wheeling, West
Virginia. He is married and has three young sons.

Davip B. WINFREy is an attorney for the Department
of Justice, Washington, D. C.

Henry N. Barker is practicing law in Bristol, Ten-
nessee.

1915

I,ESLIE ANDERSON Its in the tobacco business at May-
field, Kentucky.

CHARLES R. BEALL is a member of the law firm of
Martin, Seibert & Beall, Peoples Trust Building, Martins-
burg, West Virginia.

Ropert M. McGEHEE lives at 2121 White Street,
Alexandria, Louisiana.

Ropert P. ApAMs is a member of the firm of Taylor,
Adams & Freeman, Lawyers, Trenton, Tennessee.

WitiiaM C, Lirrce is engaged in the practice of law
at Kress Building, Brunswick, Georgia.

RicHARD B. LAUGHRAN is now located at Asheville,
North Carolina.

Henry FLetcHer Marvin is practicing law at Jack-
sonville, Florida, P. O. Box 537, in the firm of Adair,
Kent, Ashby and McNatt, after taking a post graduate
course at the University of Michigan.

WittiaAM H. Oast is now engaged in general prac-
tice of law as a member of the firm of Oast, Oast and
Oast at 716 Court Street, Portsmouth, Virginia.

JoHN Q. RuopeEs, JR., is engaged in the general prac-
tice of law at Louisa, Virginia.

RaLpH K. Roserrson is located at 306 Clayton Build-
ing, Sapulpa, Oklahoma. He has been engaged in the
practice of law, but is also engaged in the oil business.

1916
Dr. Ropert G. NELSON is practicing medicine in
Tampa, Florida, with offices in the Citizens Bank Build-
ing.
C. LyncH CHRISTIAN lives at 206 Oakwood Place,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

kK. Preston Hawkins is in the Department of Surg-
ery, The Chesapeake & Ohio Hospital, Clifton Forge,
Virginia. He says he has a typical American family, a
boy, a girl, and a dog.

| 20 |

   
    
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
  

VivIAN PaGE represents the Second Senatorial Dis.
trict, Norfolk, Virginia, in the State Senate. He was first.
elected to the General Assembly of Virginia as a member
of the House of Delegates in 1923 and served in that:
body until 1935 when he was elected to the Senate. He
was re-elected last November. ‘

1917

Bitty Cox is still State Highway Commissioner of
Connecticut. His home is at Newington, Connecticut, —

Homer A. JONEs is vice-president and cashier of the:
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia-
Tennessee. His son is in the Washington and Lee Law
School this year. ‘

1918

RussEtt B. Goopwin has been practicing law in”
Wheeling since his graduation from the Washington and |
Lee Law School. He is a member of the firm of Hally
Goodwin & Paul, 608 Board of Trade Building, Wheel. ’
ing, West Virginia. j

 

 

Ep CAMPBELL is a member of the law firm of Doug-~ 7
las, Obear & Campbell, Southern Building, Washington, —
D. C. His home is at Falls Church, Vath, and he has”
recently been elected to the Arlington County Board. _

Francis H. Styiks is American Consul General, |
Dublin, Ireland.

A. P. BowMAN is a member of the law firm of Simey
mons and Bowman, Sells Building, Johnson City, Ten-—
nessee. ;

1919

W. Dewey Davis is still practicing medicine in Rich-_ 4
mond, Virginia, with offices in the Professional Building.

LeONARD Brown and his family made a flying trip
to Lexington looking for a preparatory school for theit —
daughter Muriel, aged 15, their one and only. Leonard 1s 1
still in the paper business, starting his twenty-first year
at it. His address is 700 West Jackson Avenue, Brideea
port, Connecticut. 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1920

Wixtis BAYARD WriGHT is associated with the New-—
bold Development Company, 7611 Wisconsin Avenue,
Bethesda, Maryland. His son is now a junior at Wash- | ’
ington and Lee. 4

 

 

 

Mac Stusss is a member of the law firm of Dorsey.
Stubbs & Dorsey, Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia. —

DANIEL THOMAS OrDEMAN is Associate Professor of
English at Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oregon.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

EE

Hore STARK was appointed Solicitor General of the
Piedmont Judicial Circuit of Georgia, November 16,
1939, following the death of the Hon. Frank Simpson.

C. E. KrEvLAN is with the Texas Concrete Reinforc-
ing Steel Institute, Houston, ‘Texas. His son, 17 years old,
B duated from high school last spring.

o

1921

A. MiLitinc BERNSTEIN 1s practicing law in Monroe,

He has a son and daughter, fourteen and

Louisiana.
twelve respectively, whom he hopes to
send to Washington and Lee and Sweet

(-

Briar.

 

Gorpon Moss is teaching in Mary
Washington College, Fredericksburg,
Virginia. He is married, and has a son
and a daughter.

RopErT M. HutrcHESOoN is connected
with the Rating
Bureau in Roanoke, Virginia.

Virginia Insurance

1922
W. A. (“ABiE”) WILLIAMs is still
with Ruffin & Payne (Lumber Mill Work), Richmond,
Virginia, but he now has a farm and has just moved into
a reconditioned house over a hundred years old. His ad-
dress is 1701 Fifth Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

CHARLES QO. Locke had a very serious accident last
spring and was in a critical condition for some time in the
hospital.

Henry Trorrer is a member of the insurance agency
of Trotter, Boyd & Keese, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He
married Charlotte Llewellyn in 1926 and they have two

children, Patricia and Margaret.

Ropert M. Bear is teaching in the Department of
Psycho i at Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hamp-
shire. He taught last summer in a New England teachers’

college.

1923

Kp AULL is teaching in Phillips High School, Birm-
ingham, Alabama. He spent several weeks in Lexington
last summer doing some research work in the Library.

BERNIE Hampron is pastor of the Centenary Meth-
Odist Church, Erwin, Tennessee.

Cuartes H. Ross received his law degree at Ohio
State and since that time has been practicing in ‘Tampa,
Hlorida. His address is 608 ‘Tampa Street.

Vf
aay |

yey 9

H. S. Hartzoc is with D’Alroy & Hart, Publishers,
5944 Cates, St. Louis, Missouri.

1924

JimMi1g£ Hurr lives in Columbus, Georgia, where he
is President of the Flournoy Realty Company. He is
married, and has a four-year-old daughter.

Bitty KIRKMAN reports that he is “married with
children.”” Also that he is living “a thoroughly respect-
able” life. He is also making a success in the manufacture
with Fisele &

of clinical thermometers
Co., Nashville, Tennessee.

  

“Monk” Marrox is associated with
his brother, in the Gulf Oil
Company business in Salisbury, North
Carolina. He coached Freshman athletics

Jimmie,

at Davidson for five years after leaving
school and then tried the real estate and
__ surance business, but writes that he
*~ really enjoys his present work. He is
building a new house and has a wife and
two fine boys, aged 7 and 4, whom he
hopes to see play halfback at Washing-

ton and Lee some day. So do all of us.

T. Frank (SwAmpP) JACKSON, JR., is in the cotton
business in Memphis, being associated with Jones-Beal,
Inc., as treasurer and manager. He is married and has
one son.

THE REVEREND Mr. A. Emerson JouHnson is the
Presbyterian minister at Monterey, Virginia. He is mar-
ried and has one son and two daughters.

JimM1£ LOGAN is an English Professor at Ohio State
University, having gone there from Princeton in 1935.
He writes that he often drives through Lexington and
always stops for at least one night.

Joe McMarn is a doctor in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Stuart MacCork ef is a director in the Bureau of
Municipal Research at the University of Texas. He took
graduate work at the University of Virginia and later
obtained his Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins.

1925

ConrabD T’. ALTFATHER has been working for West-
inghouse ever since graduation. He spends most of his
time on the design of electric relays—protective relays
for transmission lines, as well as auxiliary and general-

purpose relays. He says: “I live in a little village where

[<1 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

some of the tombstones in the churchyard have been
standing more than two hundred years, commute by
train fifty-five miles (round trip) to work and like it.
Have been married almost thirteen years—and like that
too. I have two daughters, eight and five years old, but
could use a boy on the half-acre of lawn which requires
my constant attention at this season of the year.’ His ad-
dress 1s Rankin Avenue, Basking Ridge, New Jersey.

C. T. MuNHOLLAND, after receiving his A.B. degree
from Washington and Lee, entered the Law School of
Tulane University from which he received a law degree
in 1927. He is practicing law in Monroe, Louisiana. He is
married and has one daughter, Clara, who is seven.

OLLINGER CRENSHAW is professor of History at
Washington and Lee. He is engaged in completing his
doctoral dissertation which he hopes to finish this year.
He is married and lives on Morningside Heights, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

O. WrEBB STANLEY, after leaving Washington and
Lee in 1924, graduated with an A.B. degree from Van-
derbilt in September, 1926. In 1931 he married Miss
Elizabeth Wright. He is living in Nashville at 2201 Bel-
mont Boulevard.

1926
Guy Nort May is Court Reporter of the 11th Judici-

al District, Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He is married and has

four children.

Mark Wetcu Macruper, Jr., is doing general re-
porting and editorial work on the Northern Virginia
Daily at Woodstock, Virginia, covering that section for
the Associated Press and several independent papers, and
handling publicity for the Massanutten Military Academy.

JoHN Martin is with FE. I. duPont de Nemours &
Company, Wilmington, Delaware.

Rurus C. Mappux is Vice-President of Sales Radio
Station WOR, 1440 Broadway, New York.

James C. Fox was elected to. the directorate of the
Simmons National Bank of Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Mr.
Fox is Secretary and Treasurer of Fox Bros., one of the
oldest wholesale establishments in Pine Bluff.

1928
J. B. Cooper has been appointed Acting Assistant
Comptroller in Charge of Statistics for the ‘Tennessee
Coal, Iron and Railroad Company of Birmingham, Ala-
bama.

| 22 |

1929

Ropert B. L&E is in charge of the budget and ace a
counting work at the Bankers ‘Trust Company, New
York. He is married and has a son, Dick, aged three years,

   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
    

ALLEN MorGAn 1s still vice-president of the First Na.
tional Bank of Memphis, Tennessee. a

Irwin T. SANDERS is a professor in the Department !
of Sociology, Alabama College, Montevallo, Alabama, _

CHARLIE MERCKE is with the Jefferson Wood Work.
ing Company, Louisville, Kentucky. 3

JosEpH MILLER SHERWOOD is with Sherwood Bro
ers, Incorporated, Baltimore Trust Building, Baltimor
Maryland.

P. C. Wuittock says, “I do not know much to te
you, for two reasons. In the first place I have to wor
seven days a week and I don’t get around very much. Ip 1
the second place, anyone that has to work seven days a’
week can’t know very much.”

1930

Jim Hess is in the manufacturing office of the Carbiaa
and Carbon Chemicals Corporation in Niagara Falls,
New York.

MuvrreELvt Kaptan is still practicing medicine and i
located in the Physicians’ and Surgeons’ Building, Ne
Orleans.

KENNETH Keiv is District Manager for the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1015 Myers Buildag
Springfield, Hlinois.

1931

GRAHAM GILLOCK has changed his address to Aubur 1
Garden Apartments, Ashby Street Apartment 14-D¥
Alexandria, Virginia. 4

BEN Maxey ts with the Campbell Sales Company as
a salesman in Lancaster and York Counties of Pennsyl- 4
vania. He was transferred to Lancaster in December,
1939, and likes it very much. 4

BarrETr O'Hara, JR., is president of the America 1
Federation of Government Employees, Chicago, [linois.
FrED Pace is still with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company, 1102 Grundy Street, Nashville, Tennessee.

1932

FRANK S. SmitH was used by army officers at Fo t
McPherson as an example to show that draftees ca
advance rapidly. Smith’s I. Q. on the intelligence test

ee
aa

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

qs 151 out of a possible 161 points, which placed him in delphia, Pennsylvania, but expects to settle permanently
W

the category of genius. A volunteer under the Selective
Service Act, the “Genius” was immediately pulled out of

the ranks and given the job of administering the tests to

other draftees.

SuERWOOD WISE is practicing law in Jackson, Missis-
ippi with offices in the Lamar Life Building. He is mar-
: . e i
ried and has a baby girl who was nine month old in May.

CotLtas G. Harris is Executive and Budget Officer
of The National Archives in Washington,
p. C. He has recently purchased a farm and
built a house in the country. His new ad-
B.D.) Vienna, Virginia.

dress is k.

RAN SHIELDS, JR., is Resident in Surg-
ery at the Kings County Hospital, Clark-

  
 

ft)

The)
TUES

 

in Charleston, West Virginia, next year.

1935

yp CHAPPELL has been transferred from the research
department of the DuPont Company in Waynesboro to
the production department in Seaford, Deleware. He is
still unmarried.

CHARLTON GUNTHER is with the Buchanan Corpora-
tion, Fire and Marine Insurance, St. Louis,
Missouri. He is married and his home ad-
dress is Route 2, Chesterfield, Missouri.

RoOLLAND Berry lives at 316 North

High Street, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

son Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. 3 1936
BitL ApELSON is practicing law in ay y Epcar EF. Faron is a Sales Represent-
Baltimore, Maryland, with offices in the = S = ative of the American Standard and Radi-
ore 'Triet Panic Pee a ator & Sanitary Corporation, Mansfield,
Baltimore [rust Building. a ~
ee Ohio. His home is in Akron, Ohio, and he

Witt1amM C. MULLIGAN is practicing
law in the firm of Winston, Strawn & Shaw,
First National Bank Building, Chicago, [Hlinots.

1933

JouHn A. WoMELDpDoRE is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Appalachia, Virginia. He has a son, John
Herbert, born July 1, 1939.

Mo CrEIGHTON is traveling Western Virginia and
southern West Virginia for the Fidelity & Deposit Com-
pany. His address is Box 730, Charleston, West Virginia.

Epwin W. Currrum is principal of the Middlebrook
High School, Middlebrook, Virginia.

J. M. Incram received his LL.B. from the Woodrow
Wilson College of Law in Atlanta, Georgia, and is now
practicing his profession in Columbia, Tennessee.

FRED Cook is a member of the firm of Hamilton Cook
Hardware Company of Waynesboro, Virginia.

BEN JACKSON lives at 20 Poplar Street, Danvers,
Massachusetts.

H. D. Poors, Jr., is still with the H. D. Foote Lumber
Company, Alexandria, Louisiana. His brother graduated
trom W ashington and Lee last June.

Topp DeVan has his M.D. and is specializing in
Surgery. He is now at 1830 DeLancey Street, Phila-

—= =
—

Soe has a territor

y of twelve counties in north-
-eastern Ohio. He has been in this corpora-
tion for two and a half years, first in the Pittsburg office,
then in this territory for the past year and a half.

Lt

eT tere

Harry LEE BowMAN is working for the Mills En-
velope Company of Chicago. His address is 638 Fair
Oaks Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.

W. Macruper DRAKE accepted a position as Assist-
ant Registrar at Washington and Lee last September.

1937

C. Arnotp MatTrHeEws is a full-time instructor in
Iconomics at West Virginia University, Morgantown,
West, Virginia.

ALFRED H. WIsHNEW has opened law offices at 153
Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Ketty E. REED is a special agent for the Provident
Mutual Life Insurance Company in Charleston, West
Virginia.

1938

Witi1am Hupcins has completed his second year of
law work at the University of Virginia where he is taking
an active part in campus activities.

SOUTHGATE Hoy7, after completing an M.S. in Orni-
thology at Cornell, has accepted a position with the Smith-
sonian Institute in Washington. At last reports, he was

Zan

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

studying the resident birds and mammals of South Caro-
lina.

Tim LaANpvorct is working at the United States
Mint in Philadelphia. He completed his college work at
Temple University while working in Philadelphia.

Paut MILier is a 2nd Lieutenant in the Marine
Corps, stationed at Quantico, Virginia.

CHESTER PALMER is with the Advertising- Magazine-
Publicity Department of the Norfolk and Western Rail-
way Company. He is stationed in Roanoke, Virginia.

1939

J. W. Wuirre, Jr., is with the Old Dominion Paper
Company of Norfolk, Virginia.

Roy S. T'Homas is permanently located in Knoxville,
Tennessee, with the firm of Hickman, Johnson & Sim-
monds, General Insurance, Hamilton Bank Building.

FERDINAND Peter M. Rora has changed his name to
Ferdinand Peter Maupai (pronounced Mo-pay). His ad-
dress is the Helen-Mar Apartment Hotel, Miami Beach,
Florida.

SHERWIN B. FRENCH is working in the Merchandis-
ing Department of the Detroit Times. His address is 2239
Burns Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

ALEXANDER BLAIN has completed his freshman year
in the medical school of Wayne University, Detroit.

VANCE FUNK is at Jefferson Medical College in Phil-
adelphia.

Nert T. Housron has been working for the Equitable
Life Insurance Company of New York for a year. His
address is 700 N. Jefferson Street, Carrolton, Missourt.

WititiAmM McCLELLAND, JR., has attended St. John’s
College, Annapolis, Maryland, since leaving Washington
and Lee in 1937. He expected to graduate last June and
attend theological school in preparation for the ministry.

Birnigé Harper, Jr., has completed his ‘Training
Program” in the Firestone Auto Supply and Service
Stores in Memphis, Tennessee, and expected to be in the
Memphis stores for a definite assignment. He was en-

thusiastic about the work.

DonaLp Houcuvron is doing graduate work in mathe-
matics at Harvard.

1940

Joun Newton Harman, 11, passed both the Vir-
ginia and West Virginia bar examinations last summer

| 24 |

second lieutenants in the 181st Field Artillery stationed a

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

and is practicing in his own office at Welch, Well
Virginia. ’

Joun CHAPMAN SNIDow, JR., is practicing law F
Christiansburg, Virginia. %
LANIER THURMOND is working in the Cost Account.
ing Department of the Crawford Manutacturing Co,
Inc., Richmond, Virginia. His address is 1513 CHa e
Aventie Richmond, Virginia. ¥

Epwarp EMERSON Brown is an agent for the Pen n
Mutual Life Insurance Company and attending the night
law school at Chattanooga College of Law. His addres '
is 1211 Dallas Road, Chattanooga, Tennessee. ‘

Lupton Avery, 1941, and Ed Brown, 1940, are nal

Camp Forrest, Tullahoma, ‘lennessee ; and Jack Gillespie
1940, is a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps. 7

THomMAS ELiison Bruce, JR., is with the Virgin
Electric and Power Co., of Richmond, Virginia. His
address is 2316 Rosewood Avenue, Richmond, Virginia

MicHakEt P. Crocker is with the Retail Credit Co,
Court Square Bidg., Baltimore, Maryland. His address is
Wood View, Bel Air, Maryland. 4

Sion Aucustus FAULK is Assistant Chemist in Re. ;
search Laboratory for the Mexican Petroleum Co., Balti:
more, Maryland. His address is 783 Linnard Avene
Baltimore, Maryland.

H. R. SrePHENSON, JR., and SCHAEFER B. KENDRICK
have announced their association for the general practice
of law under the firm name of Kendrick and Stephenson
in the Blue Building, Greenville, South Carolina.

Atonzo McKerr WING, III, 1s attending the Univer
sity of Florida Law School, Gainesville, Florida. His
home address is 219-12th Street, North, St. Petersburg
Florida. 4

Gartanp H. Baptist is now in the Civilian Pilot
Training Program out of Shepherd College in Shepherds-
town, West Virginia. He hopes to be in the Navy Ait
Corps soon. His mailing address is 118 North Washing
ton Street, Winchester, Virginia. |

CHARLES PELL Lewis, JR., has joined the Marines and
will be in Quantico, Virginia. His home address 1s St
Albans, West Virginia. d

SAMUEL JAMES SUBLETTE, JR., is now employed by
Sublette Feed and Supply Co., wholesale grocers, Blu
held, West Virginia. ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Wedgwood Plates
NOW AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT
Order Form

Fences

for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates

at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of eight plates |

(or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS

1: Washinetow Collepe: 2 4: e7%
2 tee CORRE as
ov Lee-jackson Homes.
4 Campus Wak. a

Check color choice: [

Ship plates to:

BD. Wareote Laipitiy 2 ee bo
6; Dorenius Gymnasium 2... oe
ye A atker tall oe PJ
8. Washington, College, 1857... 4, 4

P| Gyeen [ .] Mulberry

IN ee ee ee

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINALS
une 4th, 5th and 6th

YOU ARE URGE
TO ATTEND

our Friends Will Be Here! Will You?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

