agaZzine

—

1

Alumn

versl

MW

1944

.
’

>
Kt
=

 

Class Agents for 1944

1943 —wWilliam Bell Guthrie, 120 Liberty Street, Petersburg,
Virginia.

1942 —Robert T. Vaughan, 1004 Washington Street, South
Boston, Virginia.

1941A—Paul D. Brown, Court House Square, Arlington, Vir-
ginia.

1941L—Peter S. Barrow, Jr., Nicholas County Bank Build-
ing, Summerville, West Virginia.

1940 —Gilbert Gardner, 2121 Virginia Avenue, N.W., Apart-
ment 510, Washington, D. C.

1939 —Charles H. Semple, Jr., 2511 Ransdell Ave., Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

1938 —Earl J. (Kit) Carson, Dixie Heights School, Cov-
ington, Kentucky.

1937A—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

1937 L—Edwin M. Marks, J]. Goldsmith & Sons Co., Memphis,
Tennessee.

1936A—Rev. Walter T. Lawton, 272 Burns Street, Forest
Hills, New York.

1936L—W. E. (Tex) Tilson, Lexington, Virginia.

1935A—William Schuhle, 5123 East 15th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri.

1935L—William Wilson Fowlkes, 720 South Texas Bank
Building, San Antonio 5, Texas.

1934 —Robert L. Buffington, U.S. Engineer Office, Wright
Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., Wallace Building, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

1933L—J. J. Framptom, Jr., 110 West Central Ave., Federals-
burg, Maryland.

1932A—William C. Mulligan, 1400 First National Bank Bldg.,
Chicago 3, Illinois.

1932L—Alumni Office.

1931 —Frank T. Bready, 100 Hudson Street, New York,
New York,

1930A—Kenneth L. Keil, 909 Myers Building, Springfield,
Illinois.

1930L—Samuel Wright Rayder, Rockbridge National Bank,
Lexington, Virginia.

1929A—L*t. (j.g.) Francis T. Parker, 412 Kast Jefferson St.,
Charlottesville, Virginia. (Please forward).

1929L—Philip R. Becker, 12 Floor, Callahan Building, Day-
ton, Ohio.

1928A—F. M. P. Pearse, Jr., 1637 Underwood St., N.W.,
Washington 12, D. C.

1928L—George Oldham Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Build-
ing, Louisville 2, Kentucky.

1927A—Jim Cox Wilbourn, Meridian, Mississippi.

1927L—George F. Maynard, Jr., Maynard, Fitzgerald and
Maynard, Clarksdale, Mississipp1.

1926 —Thomas P. Foley, 151 West 49th Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana.

1925A—Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, 1211 Naldo, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1925L—William A. McRitchie, Guaranty Trust Company, 140
Broadway, New York, New York.

1924A—W. Goodridge Sale, Jr., Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston 22, West Virginia.

1924L—Randolph G. Whittle, Boxley Building, Roanoke,
Virginia.

1923A—D. Raymond Snively, P. O. Box 470, Hagerstown,
Maryland.

1923L—Emmett W. Poindexter, 120 Broadway, New York 5,
New York.

1922A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Williams Building, Orlando,
Florida.

1922L—William E. Neblett, Lunenburg, Virginia.

1921A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Building, St. Louis,
Missouri.

1921L—R. C. Wood, Peoples National Bank Building, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

1920A—Thos. McA. Stubbs, 1010 Rhodes-Haverty Building,
Atlanta, Georgia.

1920L—L. Berkeley Cox, Legal Department, Aetna Life Ins.
Co., Hartford, Conn.

1919 —W. F. Barron, Rome Coca-Cola Bottling Company,
Rome, Georgia.

1918 —Matthew W. Paxton, Lexington, Virginia.

1917A—Dr. Charles W. McNitt, 130 East 67th Street, New
York, N. Y.

1917L—Alumni Office.

1916A—Harrison P. Magruder, 2359 Ashmead Place, N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

1916L—Earl B. Rose, 537 N. Broadway, Lexington, Ken-
tucky.

1915A—Charles R. Beall, Shenandoah Valley Building, Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia.

1915L—J. D. Trimble, Trimble Bldg., El Dorado, Arkansas.

1914A—Henry N. Barker, 10 Sixth St., Bristol, Tennessee.

1914L—R. Lee Beuhring, First Huntington Bank Building,
Huntington 11, West Virginia.

1913-A—C. C. Moore, Bona Allen Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

1913L—Henry B. Goodloe, Crozet, Virginia.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Virginia.

1912L—Russell B. Wine, National Bank of Commerce Bldg.,
San Antonio, Texas.

1911A—F. P. Guthrie, 1112 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

1911L—Luther G. Scott, Box 334, Bluefield, West Virginia.

1910A—Wyatt C. Hedrick, Architect and Engineer, Fort
Worth, Texas.

1910L—Walter M. Hood, Alabama Power Company, Birm-
ingham, Alabama.

1909A—John W. Claudy, R.F.D. 3, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.

1909L—L. J. Boxley, Boxley Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1908A—Horace W. Phillips, Hardeeville, South Carolina.

1908L—W. H. Jackson, Box 1531, Tampa, Florida.

1907 —E. Clyde Hoge, Box 7, Station V, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1906 —Henry C. Tillman, Suite 504, First National Bank
Building, Tampa, Florida.

15905 —David A. Bradham, Warren, Arkansas.

1904 —J. B. Akers, 3415 Fulton Street, N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

1903 —Rev. Cary R. Blain, Lake Waccamaw, North Caro-
lina.

1902 —W. Dewey Cooke, P.O. Box 1158, Savannah, Georgia.

1901 —Matthew Page Andrews, 845 Park Avenue, Balti-
more, Maryland.

1900 —Dr. S. B. McPheeters, 307 Linwood Avenue, Golds-
boro, North Carolina.

1899 —Dr.S. C. Lind, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota.

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

1897 —William J. Lindenberger, 16 California Street, San
Francisco, California.

1896 —J. W. Lattomus, Citizens Bank Building, Wilming-
ton, Delaware.

1895 —John P. Walker, Box 2237, Boise, Idaho.

1894 —John M. Graham, National City.Bank, Rome, Georgia

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, New York.

1892 —Dr. E. L. Green, University of South Carolina, Co-
lumbia, South Carolina.

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, ‘27, Ho-
te! General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia
Arkansas—John M. Raines, '16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, '14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G. Young, ’40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 21st
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, ’37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge
Sale, ‘24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Companv

Chicago, Ilinois—William Fowler Symonds,
°33, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Il.

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, '07, 1426 Clay
Street

Charlotte, North Carolina—John L. Crist, '13,
Box 1045

Cleveland, Ohio—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Carl V. Harris, '28, P. O.
Box 667

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320
East Grand Boulevard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, '21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miama, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,’29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,'25,
1211 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., ‘39,
eats Home Life Building

Lynchburg, ee Lynch Christian, '16,
Consolidated Coal Company

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
'87, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. ee 21, 7
North "Broad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, '30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,’31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jr. 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
port Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg, West Virginia—Claude P. Light,
‘06, Court House

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
°34, 3422 Warden Drive

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

ae ‘aa P. Robinson, ’10,

ark Buildi

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

mer 1 eee Wrest ar Carleton E. Jew-
West 41st Street

ecceuke wic- ae. Courtney King,’21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15,
505 Brady Building

St. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, 32,
5142 Westminster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntington, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer, '36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C.—William O. Burtner, ‘17,
2406 North Upton Street, Arlington, Vir-
ginia

Waynesboro, Virginia—William C. Raftery,’16,
373 Wayne Avenue

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIX MAY, 1944 No. 3
Bator iS *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
DEGROGING ToHhlOP 6S 5s Poss asec Mary BarcLay

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

EPOUEDE OS Cite «Gouin Rocer J. Bear, 1914
Secretary........c..000. *Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Joun L. Crist, 1913
Lr. (j.g.) RicHarp T. Epwarps, 1933
Rospert P. Horson, 1914
Ki Wittiams, 1915
Joun W. Drye, 1920
J. W. Miiner, 1915

ae

.

An Explanation

As the NeEws-Le&tTTer, recently sent to the whole alumni
list, covers all the news of the University, this issue
of THe ALUMNI MaGazInE has been cut as far as possi-
ble in order to conserve paper and unnecessary work in
the University Printing Shop, which is woefully handi-
capped by a shortage of labor.

* On leave of absence for the duration.

 

Itt
WN)

 

 

 

>

       
     

, Fe eek 4 . adel

-y yeu ee —. i ae
1 (> “ a, 4 bis 2 a “en |

: bh - - a ' * . :

—_—- +

 

 

   

b eae
’ a
? ees Fe Nyce) ee
ae . 2. ee
mon = a”
~” ; < m ae bas ate
We

“a Most Appropriate Thing”

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

W' HAVE JUST received a gift which touches my heart

profoundly, one that will stir the gratitude of our

alumni. It is a fund to support a scholarship, given by
Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. Andrews of Norfolk in memory
of their son, Charles James Andrews, Jr., who was killed
in action somewhere in Italy.

ree re

Jim Andrews, as we knew him on this campus, was
an uncommonly brilliant and eager boy, richly endowed
not merely with acquisitive intellect but also with crea-
tive ability. He finished his work here with distinction
and then went on to Yale where he made a record equally
creditable.

It seems incredible to those of us on the campus that
the bright promise of such a life be denied fulfillment.
It is one of the tragedies that lie beyond our understand-
ing. But his parents have done a beautiful and, it seems
to me, a most appropriate thing.

4 es ee

This scholarship will always make it possible for some
boy of Jim’s interests and capacities to receive the train-
ing for the achievement of a life-time career defined in
Jim's own aspiration.

In some highly spiritual sense Jim Andrews will live
forever on the campus.

Kise: fords hoaecee

President

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The 195th Commencement

T GRADUATION EXERCISES for thirteen Washington
A Lee University seniors, Saturday, April 29, Dr.
Francis P. Gaines, president, declared that happiness and
greatness depend upon the things in which men have
faith. Addressing the seniors in Lee Chapel at the 195th
commencement of the university, Dr. Gaines said that
beyond the power of the inquisitive, scientific mind, there
stands the power of faith. ‘Not great faith,” he said, “for
all men have faith, but faith in great things.”

Dr. Gaines declared that it was not a coincidence that
in 1776, four great writings appeared in the world—Gib-
bons’ “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,” Adam
Smith’s “Inquiry Into the Causes of Human Wealth,”
and Jefferson’s Declaration of Independence. The fourth,
he pointed out, was the hymn of majestic faith, written
by Augustus P. Toplady, “Rock of Ages.”

The exercises were opened with an invocation by Dr.
W. W. Morton of the university faculty. Prizes and
scholarships were awarded by Dr. Gaines. The valedic-
tory address was made by William Bell Guthrie, Phi Beta
Kappa, summa cum laude, of Petersburg, Virginia. Mr.
Guthrie, in bidding farewell to his fellow seniors, ex-
pressed the belief that knowledge must be complemented
by spiritual values, stating that “intellect is not sufficient
in times of moral and spiritual chaos.”

Following the valedictory address, diplomas were de-
livered to the seniors, and three honorary degrees were
conferred: The doctor of divinity degree to the Rev.
James Edwin Bethea, rector of Robert E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church, Lexington, Virginia; the doctor of
laws degree to Circuit Judge Walter G. Riddick of the
Eighth Circuit, United States Circuit Court of Appeals,
Little Rock, Arkansas, and to Dr. Paul Dulaney Con-
verse, professor of marketing, University of Illinois.
Judge Riddick was graduated from Washington and Lee
in 1904, and Dr. Converse received degrees here in 1912
and 1913.

The benediction was pronounced by the Rev. James
Edwin Bethea.

William Bell Guthrie, bachelor of arts senior of Peters-
burg, Virginia, who made the valedictory address, also re-
ceived the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion for ideals
of living and service to others.

Robert Oscar Crockett, Jr., of Tazewell, Virginia, re-
ceived the Lind Prize in Chemistry.

The Mahan Award for freshman creative writing was

made to David Vance Guthrie, Jr., of Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, and the sophomore award to Thomas Mahlon
Wright of Upper Montclair, New Jersey.

Endowed scholarships were awarded as follows: Ma-
pleson Scholarship—William Bell Guthrie, Virginia;
Vincent L.. Bradford Scholarship—Robert Bruce Quayle,
New York; James McDowell Scholarship—John Bost-
wick Holley, New York; Franklin Society Scholarship—
William Jean Pierre Byrne, Virginia; James J. White
Scholarship (Greek)—Leonard Rex Criminale, Ala-
bama; Mary Louisa Reid White Scholarship (Chemis-
try)—David Vance Guthrie, Jr., Louisiana; James H.
Hamilton Scholarship (Greek)—James Stanton Blain,
Virginia; Young Scholarship (Philosophy )—William
Smith, Arkansas.

The following departmental scholarships were also
awarded : Commerce—Thomas Carter Lee, Virginia; Bi-
ology—John William Funkhouser, Virginia; History—
Charles Harwood Shook, Missouri; Education and Psy-
chology—John Nicholas Ryan, Kentucky ; Latin—Albert
Harold Woodruff, Florida; Geology — Jack Andrew
Crowder, West Virginia; Journalism—Berryman Brent
Breedin, Jr., South Carolina; Spanish—Jack Donald
Reid, New York; English—David Maclyn Nowell, North
Carolina; and German—Charles Calhoun Hedges, Jr.,
Georgia.

Degrees were awarded to thirteen seniors, thirty-five
others having been awarded in August, 1943, and Feb-
ruary, 1944, in keeping with Washington and Lee’s ac-
celerated wartime policy.

Academic and professional degrees were awarded to
the following seniors: Bachelor of Laws—Thompson
Crockett Bowen, Jr., Virginia; Benjamin Porter Brown,
Jr., West Virginia; and James McClintic Davidson, Jr.,
Virginia.

Bachelor of Arts—Ernest Lovell Becker, Ohio; Stuart
Moore Faison, cum laude, Virginia; William Bell Guthrie,
Phi Beta Kappa, summa cum laude, Virginia; Ewing
Sloan Humphreys, Jr., Georgia; James Douglas McLean,
Jr., cum laude, Virginia; and Norvelle Woody Moses,
Virginia.

Bachelor of Science in Chemistry—George Henry
Bowers, III, Pennsylvania; Alexander Hamilton Walker,
Pennsylvania; and Jack Edgar Watson, Pennsylvania.

Bachelor of Science in Commerce—Lloyd Luther
Ward, Jr., Arkansas.

 

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

William H. Moreland, 1879-1944

By Raymon T. JOHNS

EAN WILLIAM Haywoop MoreLanp of the Wash-
| B eee and Lee School of Law died on March 30 at
his home on the campus. He was 64 years of age and had
been subject to a heart ailment for a number of years.
Funeral services were held in Lee Chapel and burial was
in Norfolk. He is survived by his wife and three children.
He was a member of Kappa Alpha, Phi Delta Phi, and
Omicron Delta Kap-
pa fraternities. In
1933 he was award-
ed the LL.D. de-
gree by Hampden-
Sydney College. He
was a member of the
Virginia State Bar
Association.

Dean Moreland
was born in Norfolk
and there received
his early education.
He attended Wash-
ington and Lee and
graduated from the

Law in Bi ; a

1906 and was presi-

School of

dent of his class.
Upon graduation he
returned to Norfolk and engaged in the practice of law
as a member of the firm of Baird, Swink and Moreland.
While engaged in practice he gave legal instruction to
young men preparing for the state bar examination and
there developed that deep interest in legal education
which he maintained until his death.

In 1914 he was called to Washington and Lee as pro-
fessor of law and in 1923 became dean of the law school.
Both his professorship of 30 years and his deanship for
more than 20 years are records for length of service in
the history of the School of Law.

Dean Moreland’s contribution to legal education, how-
ever, is based upon something more substantial than
length of service. He brought to the profession of law
instruction a keenness of mind, a balance of judgment, a
breadth of interest and of reading that made him more
than a mere specialist in a narrow branch of the law. He
had great admiration for the Anglo-American system of

 

ON, Professor of Law

common law and was skeptical of the enduring value of
much of the widespread product of legislative reform.
His broad study and discriminating judgment refused to
accept mere change as evidence of progress and he vigor-
ously defended the slower, but more orderly, process of
legal evolution based upon long-range social experience.
Those who were associated with Dean Moreland know
that he was unyield-
ing in his insistence
upon the observance
of the highest stand-
ards of legal in-
struction. He real-
ized that no course of
instruction could cov-
er all the ramifica-
tions of the law and
that the course of
study should be di-

-

LALLA LA

es
r

rected toward a rig-
orous training in fun-
damental legal prin-
ciples. This standard
of instruction he
strictly adhered to in
the conduct of classes
in his own particu-
lar field of pleading, practice and evidence.

Dean Moreland’s influence upon his colleagues, his stu-
dents and his Alma Mater was significant and profound.
The University and the School of Law have suffered a
great loss in the death of an able administrator and a
thorough scholar. As long as personal and _ professional
integrity shall be valued and strength of conviction and in-
dependence of judgment shall be esteemed, Dean More-
Inad’s long and distinguished service will be one of the
brilliant chapters in the history of Washington and Lee.

 

CLAYTON EpES WILLIAMS has been appointed Acting
Dean of the School of Law at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. He succeeds Dean William Haywood Moreland,
who died on March 30.

Dean Williams was appointed to the Washington and
lee faculty in 1919 as associate professor of law. The
following year he was named professor.

[7]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of May 5, 1944

NOTE:
eighth published addition to the list of Washington and
lee men in service, published in the May, 1942, Maga-
sine. Washington and Lee now has 2,743 alumni listed in

This list of 142 alumni in service comprises the

the armed forces.

In compliance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or other address from which mail will be forward-
ed, special activities, type of service or training, etc. The
permanent home address is most important as service ad-
dresses change so rapidly.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possible
with our alumni in this time of stress, and any informa-
tion concerning alumni in service will be greatly appreci-
ated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
as follows: A, Army of the United States; AAF, Army
Air Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air
Corps; MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
American Field Service; MMS, United States Merchant
Marine Service. An asterisk (*) following the above
symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Pemiote;: Chaar len: V sae 20 isso iisassscsccdece hocdadtcscaot Rlaake eelcaenced A*
FLEIGOLOON, - ICMP OECTA EL, Witcisksvssodcdcsdeosovchecpatecavsasceocucdcted \AF
August, Wendell McMinn, Jr., i eTisdakcn unas (dikenseab atibadadeiakes N*
Sere, TAG TRE e CEERI, CER. 0 ccccdvent fi danient eedabobseshediel abi bbeanuaa N
PGI IRODETE WABI OT LOOKS oosss ls paspastec hab kasesnoeneddeeraldacecrseesees MC*
BOs RSG: BLOTS TUG VI Oe ie eatebnce it ube Badeicevnne ciel N
EoSEO, J OE OM FECI, Me endiphs Nbdcik wasup Snok bscnsssbccauialerats daaecy opcbaNemamaaal A
EEOSIME  EROCMCE DAC OUT TOTS Ti scescksoclctolcacasnsncasencdes cdehatcoabapeall \
Barnekov, Christopher Conkling, °42............ccccccccssscsssssssssssessesed A
PO OMPUL, My AP MATIE BY WRN Sic hts iia oars alsscanas cde dn'ns dudalelenpnenteouseadline N
RCE aeY, < F  OVO IOI Logs cedecabensdcos so ecahassdinbcaskseenbceniven MC
Belchedy 4 ramet ee Been” Wiig tie Teasdacsccnsdstubdcdecevisctcemb haber eonaaoaodl \
Black, James Allen, aPiewt Goaab de chcasccencon aibiazh isis aeiaaiiaeadtntantictinlal A
EGRET? FUMOR SALE: TOS Sisicenises -ccotcsssotaiictst aadasiuduisacd teasesvasuanlnl N*
BGICOR; SRICNORG SOCKROT, C9 ccvicurs accadunastcesccniosaguechwed copes ckbthailnaes N
BOrries; WG Sea SI soc cisavicecvcpuickalloocs viscclncdiadheschinabetiaad A
LSE. TOT ST CUAON, . Was chicas cnncaninadeeay Adsncbaciharsesthes someones MMS

 

* Indicates commissioned officer.
** Killed in training or combat.
*** Officially missing in action.

Name and Class Branch of Service

SGSiy PERT ROVIOD Fe 29 och cach ck hc N*
POU Mije WM MNIN PARTE SSDS icin lacks Sb easd.ccdarscedavakcohsdh ioeceecd iccds sits N*
NRL PIS OT MEM ree eae asa aks sctbeckcdchs aa came kasd a eek A
Callaway, Austin raat, oe sateutivanecs ep siouabotaedonvalieetibdeadbrc aabarebes N
CRI, NUM! Bam BRO seks. sccscaieinse bar Once cegiceeticws hc! AAF*
Coghill, Kenneth ea. "5 se Uy oxenhadedpebuga SdaMibebomtaceiis Dakine N*
Cer Cette ita cee CONF Be sina adi cen pciheltiageavkesnicbicccnwedie ate N*
CEST UIA RCRD COIN ae ne a oe a N
SU MnN Cia, Tek PRN ik Ske pac fie es sd eo N*
EPG: hee PERLOR BURG aie IES chic eis crack nha A*
Wupre,. Clarence Ea 18;, °42..i.)csibsk dices: CG*
SP YR <0 RU RENEE Ey. a cee ages cs he oe N*
DEIN SERN as AO yA UN Aci de hncahis bic ceades tesco wok osdoces teeing be a A
SPURT TURN IUUN< PRINCE, TRMRSRER Re ed A *
ST SRIA;S Ee COMERET aes YMC etter Se os So aaa AAF*
Speman. Pentel Sh eae N*
Pingo VATE TMOVNOR Botaiakenn ts ee A
Podte? Lawrence Cates, BO. eid assis chet N *
PGnkhouser, Freee AE POs ca Nchaciis hp iscci sis be vans colleen cee ae N
Gautier, Redmond B.., Jr, sibbeibcsnibivacaiebelbatacs deus’ hcpekeecaras N*
Rene WUARRSE TE ROR hao cash 5s induce Siceinetecbasco duns digthacico lath N*
Cardy 7 permedes Mailed: (96 i iatgir er oe Bae ei MC
PRMIL OUI, ees y PA RRs Da Osu isinteces, 5 te aechecephubsicssdcneesetedl A
FROIOY, “IROMOET. F ORGIES SB ies ntelhs on cdichcctecin, Scdtioteede Rice N*
FA WRG, ATR cy tn de oces sts tae cic stois eps tb coos oaks dada A
FIOMGEK > ARBOR ROD ORE: 2G. a. ciciccah cocbticrcccccdetbcictcpiescaicitibutsicees, N*
Frindermiann,: Cra wrord Iolite, 768 bic oii... ccd, scnses i ccdeivevoctudseuet CG
SROMGRS ~B ea Fda eth tindeah 5s Sadly saree bigs eiscdA ha hpelbeddkhiadascne N
FROMO WARY, VU MRMUEE ie CPE Packs Hoshodnsdecccdetesseorcvacticcccscticecid AAF
EX UGROM; SUODREE RAE Eas oily is dasapnukeuaclictehcisens ens sodoeceSccdcbivenccatabadté N
FEU IBICTE, FICC OV OROE, 10 BO ii oo cesiccocsccbs tccels sacle cSinévesndncaieed AAF
FACULCHOIS, TIO WAS. VY COGS esi kha Sins Sacetdedeschckncschacabdetenincd AAF
FaRIICKE, ER GGROre Gree oe cekrceke tect ccdsticucccectaavi daticl.coeoskseccscch le N*
TMPCOCE, FOU i URN oe esse. dia Ri ack ck) avasncoigeaatecouseedecmctee N*
SF OTRCTROM : TAVRCRE Ess, Midoce sadsiteiad camackddpavtcasbadesis<sossbocccie caveaceaeud AAF
SUG: VV TIT REINO RR dea ie oh ne A*
PROTO, TMC: WV 55, ee tastes lestdeeeORc etchant ocsesetMcedvicscccbniaen tied AAF
Kambrell,  Wilhiane. Cimtence, 23256 oi ccictintsbccherbhcihcccctecciol A
RsGt, : VV MENG Bak IG ee bi sas ascis had desonsnsnsedthidsack cite Bapaanas ocd A AF*
LOG, PRAGEL- PORTOR, , Wetahdobicinensiestbovesspuindich ostsQhassdl dhhewd atest ots itcantvten CG
LITE TIOIE, TRC OPATE FREED, BUG <pcecosecvere. crcoossvaathacdensridecdudbate ii vioheses N
RAVCIO.. FAUMEL. gO PEs 2 vcs chip ssescchorcdcienialvasvicntt i anuatinutcantenss chbestoctd A
OC ARCOM OE oS IPs Sets asoat aca oc cdneachatRis balinnvads EBULE eka bake] A
Eien OY EL CHAO ERASED GED ak «ion. 4, ocpecighickaevaasenebdbeichistenes Mebindesdad A
LOCLY, , FMR ON EF TACE, A issccseccsscasicoen tnhcsvanpmaalo auasen tapas oveccdnee N*
ERM.) PAAGk | We WERENT Oca igacashsploncnice teas teamieaaeaetens Eckindebinioes enna A*
McCandless, David  Alexandet,.?27 sscscsisieesspsesbiicchypeckeusscxest NAC*
RECS, VULMIMEIE, IT.) Goaisaiits Sodaed Setieianninhs eset nedaieadedarsoo’ AAF
Moliveine, Paul Mortott. Sa wicccistciikheicsatttcertbestasibclectassed AAF*
McKown, Gilbert Carlyle >."35iij:;.--sssseoatseesadeatosckes<tgecdivesadescoccde N*
PALO Vv simitis.- Fok. LAG VG F 0. “Gee civteakoteaieebasnnascketen in cevcasacaecsians N
BROCE, : FOuT EPC. aii dosicdibiockghsdcctnadidenssatantvetedyceseseccscscocest A*
Mimerites, Leo Fe ver ert re iccieis ces aries: capo tatitycaesetssntesce doves aéaucéuod \
Manas: Ecweia: F5c wiriny. (Or kcidets acc avetiacte cereieans tah tb acsaecNocdacccsct A
Matthein, ‘Al aven “Winslow, SFGisc.seetcsssciucdis bars sbeceeviciciscccnccssiccscteced A
Marchant: -Kierighl. ii! SO7nkssieltadativtindshiekapes edt tacads sv cledbavcssedupecs. MC
Marikks; Eid wan: Begs SBS ica catists cit tathcatensts eo Mesa sgeoeVacescccecetccoes A
Middlekauff; Robert’ Falton, "SGiisc.ccccicccevenc- socsevepssceccsscacsisesccoccned \

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Millets, Vy Tare FS NONE 8 Fr kd nooo nok tren bean cubase sinccuctndeocaan’s N*
Milling RODOrG Tri ia etic ctincdesceckcccceisclicecscovadsoscsnobcayecsaseal A*
Mi16S0, | VCR TAINO Maia dlascdhcsccan tan bscckcxgtanee ccbnsatuacuinks cdiviacd N*
Minniece, ELGistarl. BEICCHGE Bi ap ilac ccd ckesdoch hevdsscs<sdbcndessscsubetace N*
Mitchell, Eugene Hamilton, 730 .0....05..ccccccedsccccesscccccecccescocvccceed A AF*
M DTC Ys. SERPOT > Spe ePeteveceseia clashed cacnscsndist tip siakucceiecnevsbatiocgd AAF
Moore, Teomiat VSO ee aie hci ried Aco tatliccel A*
Nasha,: Grecia easter mt ah be ciis hak zniice once shaccltcsacacdbies Rubepanedl A
Neuritianh; eC ieee rdeacdaca dade cocosadbicden cabesiveccvtcbeusehccactinvcent CG*
N orton « Fy Gas ed vc Tasca cael ona eal creates Sick en deem vsecnbaans N
Oasts Witter eee Fake Pea sateis ik eiabacpetacotscea dudes sccke dbascscodetes MC
Orr thn Wi a Goiatarebea eat eich alas eines ess kedicihires tickodibcchevd te nodicGddclenteoiaeh N*
Onl; Sera PR COR orice Noda ecelk stcbeteeksetote cicsedeictbncceths N*
Posies. | Ferle TaBeie se ect conde punhchacchenale osansctsae cgubomconectol waa N*
Pipe eee Ok soe Ad gin tetas debaters ccdeedehdecnciedslbichaloosevsesed AAF*
Porter, -NEastote TW. SDs ik hieeteashcdscaiicesds cacncaciccucécrdaisbicteses A*
Ra Ors Ear Wate iar ees Bee ec la taide de cule colds pnnliciicd po onnceeataccevcasuis N*
Rested. FRc a ee Man aah ick caboechsindancwdasasccincusass asec cocucveteas N*
Ries te OO, ASO. a dinda de isecktrcdantilstathedcn sépscckislncsvubaseccansnend AAF
Robertson, Preston Breckenridge, °41................cccccceceseeeeeceees MC
Ste Chenin: Ra ae ater eats ti shinai me cadhcn onde ths ckcectn setyecoiselsvacedd A*
Sate, WGC eben ase ced ithe Sins bn gis etaadanspdhthtnndetcoceosbet A*
Scbarmnit 6; Fa iis Fae al es at a aaiicdetbcicatnh sabes vadaeasvecousss cdectdcshdecavoaand A
Scotty’ WWaeee sets 2 ence ancien ba ake ik. Ac cock aueaat cl budndes N*
Shatin hast E cwrae. FeO Fd pi cdstese ccdibachtadsitea ch cddecciecbsvancccoten’ AAF
SHAD, - Rasee ey ROC ies — ek Rec ececash thease ss cv a pidait as tovad pace cdcbcsanbeuuaiets N*
Shepherds, Frown a aes csatelesasatateedeacchuseldeceddusaiceseconcd AAF*
Shepherd; :Keninethy Alemander, : Ss. icvccsscccccccsccndaicscsccdinetescsabes MC
Shepperson, Archibald Bolling, Tai va sled dinkekoctacvandncdecadineeesn ivan N*
Ghistrran,. Berérsiati: “EG iam ei oiivciis ck ccisocdote cus dicks(sivoieccesdcoarcostoctsnans N
Simmons, Ted Was dierorsrA ins cchonkchccacesashcseict vacecsavceaskntiees ttl A*
Shidmareé, -Steniens: Mamet 35 aceisc i lind cece dass bodeacescad A
Sima thi, A TOKM IR CR Ww SUMAN, ak cds. de scdaa Yeyinhenncs abs dddcdes Sedeliabenengsoee A*
SSITAEOh, STE FACIE ee uate ss Agios cacteibieas ees N
staley . Fogennhy Fi mira Bde tigs cde dmronanededhasiastbenstvetoesiscmahaibeoaediaesd A*
stanhelcl,: Faerie. €5s n PSE Sec cuiacacemiscasedycibeirs suas cuccedspeakallisks shblv'as N
Stephenson; THittord Start" 42.0 oo ictta cians ke AAF
strickler, Vernon “PReGGeUs, JT. 5° Gia sichsscccctedebeicieccttsseacapad AAF*

TOQay: VERTIS U0 a attinndeal Galak ae Ah teen aia ene ad \
Tate, - Perera Bee. aah ae dase ctiaant cattsccks Sisal ctabecdeti chericsatbcaoctusitesewad A*
Taylor. ‘GEariies SSL Oit.. -etilisinccticcsiakeMbcisipdecodnttsciacesstavcseniciesed A*
Thomas, «J Orta Ree csi siai decal ca knigs cdiccab Aa toctedpavciaesdeecd A
Tilson, Cori ren Base ae ete ak, oats has cad choc avadesotsoaeb=6e’ N*
‘PreHes, FORE LiSO so LO Aiielg schon cslacaakiptedd ipdapedsatioce’scnioksdadcvobecegevbes N
Sree ABER PR Pra amet scadite Drsccsathenodosas tensed cesthbes dovever cit N
Ugela, Atrio Si Strmitrads: BO siitisessicsekes. tcsstcs<cibccasecunsetsoasicceackcasiend A
U they, Vo eee se iy ia tia ta cba cedth dinate ca ep ees cusstrectincauiceietbbedtad A*
Vandervoort. Bm Onert Nims PR oi cicceciceccckssacictccnntecestnccb cece MC
Walker, (iim a Bere. 657 voice saschincdiababotvacshsss dcegacroiaveatseststeoail A*
Wallace, - [Ramet Garett. De Ae os iycacctrctgstoth ste ths chevjpacaibincnanibobadceccobee A*
W alia;: | GRist Bampaee sl’ ecules aii iliiatsstehidscudbeascassacden teceiedetasis scans N*
W athetins; Eur, LIGWIG.. [Sibegeicecesck s<cktercdtedyvenjnalsccnskercastkancesssabstince N
W eb ber, xpbrraiame Pus aie 00s tec oy adda catiteds ns sessienghy dasgn ae maodrasiacseea ces \
W CURB ea Paes Bak. Pek cds Ui cesase  ksetciabadtcacednnndsedce\ Uaccpateudas Siekeeliiaal A
W ese tar, BOS © rae cL Nactics cite ctandbes sicbapiweg tec hbebemcpta elke \
W ellis; Tbe wih Faith, ett sa tata rs sccdewwivicss cxien cs dapwodeage cosh eidueeene dusecdascblh N
Wendelken, Richard William, ’38.....0..............cccccsccccsceccsscecsesseseed A
W erble, Wha teemey 255 so. keschics eer cccen ik ac biiaeyoccdicemeJeceianed A
Wertz, ee PR ORN Ys Ao ois Bes iass Dh noindécasscblallin hanaveuseacttenes MC
White, Gena William: ’20 fist k NSS, inane MMS
W illiamig,- Ferapile DCmer A ets ic cicceta tad caghcteatnla,Sesbcscetincesstoccaebwansced A
W oodlall: Wh atic Baers sb deiechn cabelas chen klbeitbakaisst seasanachobioncaieni deel N
Wood ward: Meets ai soc Tis sacickcascepsiep cable wdlcpiows shascatbisacnans stil \
Wynn, . Laer Bene et oo iicsts ns csckaeookiccadentdbascycustaibacdioecntananeed A
Yancey, Reet Gite iee, ie. tiiccsccecthcsk sacle diesecalciucsacdsescch head AAF*
Yonge, (Po Garry le oe taiaiis tos leicht Nees taba waptincadinsetecenltnes A
Young, Heniy ky Ghr aces 140 .c5 spaced ening chebsvessavaeedacttocebeseenti MC

 

Twins instructed by twins. This unusual situation came
about when Aviation Cadets Robert L. Schultze, second
from left, and Edward J. Schultze, on Robert’s left, ar-
river recently at the Enid Army Air Field, Oklahoma,
for their basic training. The instructors are Capt. George
M. Murray, left, and Capt. William A. Murray, right.
The Schultze twins are 21 years old and sons of Mr.
and Mrs. Al Schultze, 1215 West Fourteenth Street, Dav-
enport, Iowa. The Murray twins, both flight comman-
ders at the Enid Army Air Field, are 25 years old and
sons of Mr. and Mrs. George M. Murray, 261 Beach
Road, Glencoe, Illinois. The Schultze twins, before en-
tering cadet training, worked in Rock Island, Illinois,
Robert as a junior clerk at the Rock Island Arsenal and
Edward as an engineer draftsman for the U.S. Engi-
neers. The Murray twins attended Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia, from 1937 to 1941, and
both belong to Sigma Chi fraternity.

 

Service Casualties

1936
Lt. (j.g.) Robert Edward Holland, Jr., Naval Air Corps, of

Lexington, Virginia, a carrier plane pilot, was killed about
April 5, 1944, two days at sea from Norfolk. In October, 1942,
he was awarded the Navy Air Medal for meritorious achieve-
ment during a raid by the USS Hornet on the Japanese near
the Santa Cruz Islands. He also received a Presidential cita-
tion when he was stationed aboard the USS Saratoga.

1943

Lieutenant Thomas Martin Ford, Jr., was killed in a plane
crash in North Africa, March 12 1944. He had been over-seas
only two weeks and had visited his parents in Martinsville,
Virginia in January, 1944.

Chandler S. Whipple of 25 Summer Street, Bristol, New
Hampshire, was killed in action while piloting a B-25 Mitchell
Somber on a strafing mission October 5, 1943, near Madang,
New Guinea. He was promoted to Ist Lieutenant and awarded
the Purple Heart posthumously.

1945
John Hawes Edwards, Jr., was killed in action on March 7
at Anzio beachhead in Italy. No details were given. His home
was at East Rutherford, New Jersey.

[9 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

1874
One of the oldest of Washington and Lee’s alumni died in
Washington, D. C., January 28, 1944. He was Charles M.
Davis, born October 22, 1855 at Cross Anchor, South Caro-
lina, a member of the class of 1874. As a young man he was
a planter in his native State, but later he went to Washington
where he studied law, receiving the LL.B. degree from George
Washington University. For many years he was a lawyer on
the staff of the District of Columbia government. He retired
in 1925. In that year, on October 19, he married Miss Ann
Wesley Herndon. Their home was at 1882 Columbia road.
His widow survives him.
1885
Rev. William McFaddin Alexander, D.D., pastor emeritus
of the Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, New Orleans,
Louisiana, died April 29, 1944.

1894

Hon Wells Goodykoontz died March 3, 1944. Mr. Goody-
koontz served as United States Senator from West Virginia
from 1919 to 1923.

Rev. Hervey Louis McDowell died in Pascagoula, Miss-
issippi, June 23, 1943.

A. Lynch Ward died on May 4, 1944, at his home in Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

1896
Dr. William Brown Morrison died March 20, 1944, in
Durant, Oklahoma.
1903
Thomas Collier Turner died October 3, 1943.
1905
John R. Russell died in Austin, Texas, in March, 1944.
1911

Ben Harvey died at Lynchburg, Virginia, on January 2,
1944.
1917

Arlie David Swecker died in March, 1944.

Sam Silverstein died on April 1, 1944. His home was in
Charleston, West Virginia. At the time of his death Mr.
Silverstein was serving as Class Agent for the Law Class of
1917.

1933

William B. Bond died on June 30, 1943. His home was in
Jacksonville, Florida.

1937

Richard Harrison Ruff was fatally injured in an industrial
accident at Northfork, West Virginia, May 19, 1943. His
home was in Elkhorn, West Virginia.

Births
1932

Captain and Mrs. Paul Wofford are the parents of a son,
Paul Hamilton Wofford, III, born April 15, 1944.

1941

Lieutenant and Mrs. Richard Middleton Herndon are the

parents of a daughter, Martha Ann Herndon, born March 7,
1944,

 

Marriages

1931

John Tanner Raymond was married on December 17, 1943,
to Elinor Magdalene Erickson, in Montebello, California.

1938

Pfc. Richard William Wendelken was married to Marie

Helen Balme.
1941

Lt. (j.g.) Samuel Orr Pruitt, Jr., was married to Martha
Jane Jones Kessler, on February 1, 1944, in Havana, Cuba.

Alexander Bratenahl was married to Roberta H. Robb, on
February 13, 1944, in Washington, D. CG.

Lieutenant Willard Hampton Keland was married March
18. 1944, to Karen Andrea Johnson, in Jacksonville, Florida.
1942

Lt. (j.g.) John H. Mast, Jr., was married to Wilma Car-
lyle LaRue, on February 8, 1944, in Lee ‘Chapel, Wash-
ington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.

1943

Ensign Edwin Flemming Robb, Jr., was married to Dorothy

Ann Cleveland, on April 5, 1944, in Staunton, Virginia.
1944

Ensign William Harry Baugher, Jr., U.S.N.R., was married

to Phebe Bateman Hirshon at Douglaston, New York.
1946

Lientenant Kendall K. Fish was married March 14, 1944,
to Elizabeth Lewis Lykes of Pelham Manor, New York,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Lykes. Mr. Lykes is a
member of the University Board of Trustees.

 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, MEETING

The Louisville, Kentucky, Alumni Chapter met on Feb-
ruary 23, for luncheon, with the following alumni present:
George Burks, Jack Hardwick, Henry Hill, Robert Hobson,
Bill Farmer, Wathan Kneblekamp, Tom Nugent, Ed Rietze,
Charles Semple, Fielden Woodward, and John J. Davis, Jr.

Fielden Woodward, formerly president of the Louisville
chapter, was inducted into the Army on April 12, 1944. Ap-
proximately sixty-five of the Louisville alumni are now in the
Armed Forces.

 

Honoring Dr. James Lewis Howe and Mr. William M.
McElwee, 1879, the Peoples National Bank of Lexington,
Virginia, celebrated the fortieth anniversary of its founding
on April 15. Mr. McElwee was cashier from 1904 to 1925, and
has been president since that time. Dr. Howe was president
from 1909 to 1922, and has been chairman of the Board of
Directors since 1937.

 

Lt. Col. Preston White, 1917, just returned from 19 months
overseas with an evacuation hospital now attached to the
American Fifth Army in Italy, has been spending a short
vacation with his family who are living in Lexington, Vir-
ginia, for the duration.

Colonel White is a veteran of the Tunisian campaign and
the invasions of Sicily and Italy.

[ 10 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1886

B. F. Harlow is Editor

 

Rev. John V. McCall, D.D.,
M.A., 1886, is a retired Min-
ister of the Presbyterian
Church. He is Moderator of
his Synod and for the past
seventeen years has been the
oldest living member of that
body. He is now eighty years
old and is rich in affectionate
memories of Washington and
Lee and the associations he
has here. His home is in

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class
notes appearing in this issue. The letters from which
these notes are taken were written, for the most part,
early last spring. The rapid influx of alumni into the
several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes
inaccurate. We would like to have more material for
class notes in letters to your Class Agents this year.

and Publisher of the Lex-
ington Gazette, Lexington,
Virginia.

Marion W. Ripy is Coun-

sellor at Law, 4 East 43rd
Street, New York, N. Y.

1897

Thomas E. Marshall is
with the Rocky Mount Mills,
Rocky Mount, North Caro-

 

 

Weatherford, Texas.

Frank B. Crawford lives at 20 N. Washington Street, Win-
chester, Virginia. He is Deputy Commissioner for the city
of Winchester, Virginia.

1889

Hon. Wade H. Ellis is head of the law firm of Ellis, Hough-
ton & Ellis, Southern Building, Washington, D. C. He says:
“T have no children but my wife and I have been happily mar-
ried for forty-five years.” He received his Phi Beta Kappa
key and also the honorary degree of LL.D. from Washington
and Lee, and similar honors from four or five other colleges.

1892

John W. Davis, member of the University Board of Trus-
tees, has his offices at 15 Broad Street, New York, N. Y.

Judge John M. Woods lives at 9 D. Brookland Court,
Charleston, West Virginia.
1893
Dr. George Bolling Lee, member of the University Board

of Trustees, is still practicing medicine in New York City,
with offices in The Plaza.

H. A. Albright lives at 923 West 6th Street, Columbus,
Mississippi. He has an abiding faith in the future of Wash-
ington and Lee.

P. M. Kistler lives at Colorado Springs,
Colorado.

1895

William McChesney Martin is senior partner
in the law firm of Martin Peper and Martin,
407 North Eighth Street, St. Louis, Missouri.
He is a member of the University Board of
Trustees.

1896

J. W. Lattomus, who has been the faithful

‘ ; : = se
Class Agent for 1896 for the past four years, wag Zip

met with an accident last June which resulted Alen

in the amputation of his right leg above the >
knee. He is “carrying on” as Class Agent again ee a
this year, evidencing his continued devotion watt

to Washington and Lee.

 

lina.

William J. Lindenberger is a Merchandise Broker. His
address is 16 California Street, San Francisco, California.

1898

Richard W. Flournoy is Assistant Legal Adviser, Depart-
ment of State, Washington, D. C. His home address is 111
West Leland Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

W. Ross McCain says there is no change in his status since
last year. He is President of the Aetna Fire Insurance Com-
pany. His address is 670 Main Street, Hartford, Connecticut.

Ernest W. Ripy is making alcohol for the government in
his distillery at Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, and has two farms
from which he says he derives much pleasure.

Col. Warren W. Whiteside is still with the Army Remount
Station at Front Royal, Virginia.

1899

Col. Arthur M. Shipp, U.S.A. Retired, with his wife and
daughter, are making their home in Lexington, Virginia.

Dr. S. C. Lind is Director of the School of Chemistry, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. He has had an
outstanding career in his profession, and is an ex-president of

the American Chemical Society.

1900

William Pinkerton Ott is head of the De-
partment of Mathematics at the University of
Alabama.

Robert A. Watson is a lawyer and banker
in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Lynwood R. Holmes is manager of Furness-
Withy Company, Ltd., 630 Public Ledger
Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

    

Say | 1901

NTU AS

toed ‘| bitin John W. Johnson lives in Tuscumbia, Ala-
aoe” =~=~=—SCUulbama. He gives no news of his activities.

Hale M. Houston is with the John Bremond

Hi Ys Nes
Company, P.O. Box 1136, Austin, Texas.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1902

D. E. Witt is Special Agent of the New Hampshire Fire
Insurance Company, with offices in the Krise Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Judge Scott M. Loftin is a member of the law firm of
Loftin, Calkins, Anderson Scott and Preston, Graham Build-
ing, Jacksonville, Florida.

Osman E. Swartz is General Counsel of United Carbon
Company, Charleston, West Virginia.

1903

Thomas Ball is practicing law in the Title Insurance Build-
ing, Los Angeles, California. He reports meeting classmates
whom he has not seen since 1903, but says the memories of
the associations of the University stand out as vividly as if
they were yesterday.

D. R. Phelps, D.D.S., 809 Church Street, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, is thankful that his improved health has made it possible
to carry on his work without interruption, even with the
added load incident to the war.

Robert Tate Wallace is Minister of the Monticello Presby-
terian Church, Monticello, Florida.

J. M. McClung is in the general insurance and farming busi-
ness at Raphine, Virginia, but owing to the war and food
shortage, is devoting almost all his time to the latter.

R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia, says he is still spading
out the Black Diamond, which is so very important these
days. His son Richard Harrison Ruff, ’33, is in the army.

R. T. Flanary is with the Norton Hardware Company,
Norton, Virginia.
1904

M. T. McClure is Dean of the University of Illinois, College
of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Urbana, Illinois.

Rev. J. H. Gruver is doing a work of which his Class is very
proud. He is Superintendent of the Black Mountain Orphan-
age, Black Mountain, North Carolina, where he has been for
the past fifteen years.

William W. Bays is with the Federal Trade Commission in
Washington and lives at 1458 Columbia Road, N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

1905

Dr. J. H. Steenbergen, gives his address as 1145 4th Avenue,
Huntington, West Virginia, but gives no news.

J. D. Hobbie, Jr., lives at R. F. D. 5, Roanoke, Virginia.

1906

Henry M. Bandy is practicing law in Norton, Virginia, with
offices in the First National Bank Building. He has been a
member of the Virginia Legislature for fourteen years. His
son, who was also his law partner, Henry M. Bandy, Jr.,
LL.B. 33, is a First Lieutenant in the Navy.

Kelly W. Trimble is with the United States Department
of the Interior, Geological Survey. He says: “Perhaps no
institution will contribute more or sacrifice more willingly
it’s men and means toward the war effort than Washington
and Lee. Traditionally, any other course or thought could not

be tolerated since the past history of this institution requires
no apology for courses steered during past national or world-
wide emergencies.”

C. A. Dunlap lives in Wellington, Kansas. He gave no
personal news.

Brent E. Clark is Chief Engineer of the Oklahoma State
Highway Department, and his wife is in the real estate and
hotel business. He says Oklahoma is a wonderful state and
has been kind to him and his.

Claude P. Light has been Prosecuting Attorney of Wood
County, Parkersburg, West Virginia for over a year, and
assistant for over five years. He has acted as legal adviser for
over three years in building a county airport. He also has
many civic and war jobs, which more than takes up all his
time.

Ira T. Ritenour, Pendroy, Montana. Started farming in
Montana fifteen years ago. He has 960 acres of land and is
hard pressed for farm labor.

1907

W. K. (“Bill”) Ramsey is with the International Boundary
Commission, United States and Mexico, U. S. Section, El
Paso, Texas. His three sons are all in the service. He says:
“Reminiscing a bit, did it ever occur to you how many things
started at W and L during our years there? I offer the follow-
ing list of ‘firsts’ for the 4-year period of 1903 to 1907 and
challenge the ‘gen’l’men’ of any other like period of time to
produce a longer list:

(1) W and L Swing composed and first played and sung.
1907, I believe.

(2) First Fancy Dress Ball, 1905 or 19006.

(3) First Mock Political Convention (do they still have
them?). 1903, I believe.

(4) First Dramatic Club. About 1906.

(5) First ‘color-work’ Calyx (Bledsoe & Manly, 1906).

(6) First house occupied exclusively as a fraternity house
(Delta Tau Delta, in 1907).

(7) First victory over Virginia on Lambeth Field (1906).

(8) First of the national honorary societies to enter the
University (Phi Delta Phi, in about 1907).

(9) First trial (of modern time, at least) under the Honor
System. 1906 or 1907.

(10) First try-outs of new yells to replace the out-moded
‘Ring-tum Phi’ couplet.

“We were up and coming lads in these days, no doubt about
it. Perhaps you can think of other firsts to add to the list. In
any event you have my full permission to publish it along
with the challenge. It might prove to be an interesting and
harmless diversion in these times of stress and strain.”

William F. Semple is attorney for the Deep Rock Oil
Corporation, Atlas Life Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma. His two
sons are grown, one an Aviation Cadet and the other an
instructor at the Spartan School.

T. O. (“Shack”) Bagley is a member of the firm of Bagley
& Bagley, K. of P. Building, Fayetteville, Tennessee.

Charles F. Bagley is still with the First National Bank,
Fayetteville, Tennessee. His two older sons, both alumni of
Washington and Lee, are now in the Air Corps. He has
another son, now thirteen years old.

Vint Miles is a Solicitor for the Postoffice Department,
Washington, D. C. He gives no further news of his activities.

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1908

Alan Porter Lee says, “Not having a son of suitable age
to enter the Service, the old man has had to go and do a
little bit himself. For the record, if it is worth anything, I
have enlisted as a Seaman 1/C in the United States Coast
Guard Reserve (Temporary). Duties consist of contributing
one full day, twenty-four hours, each week to patrolling coast
waters in a standard 38’ Coast Guard Patrol boat. You may
be sure that the Seaman 1/C are the ones who do the work
of cleaning out the bilge and scuppers, hoisting the anchor and
all other tasks which are essential but beneath the dignity
of the C.P.O.” We have placed Mr. Lee on our Service File.

William H. Jackson is practicing law in Tampa, Florida.
His address is 3211 Bayshore Boulevard, Tampa.

James M. O’Brien is practicing law at 158 South Beverly
Drive, Beverly Hills, California.

George E. Penn is practicing law in Kingsport, Tennessee.

Donald P. Boyer, 2804 Du Pont Circle, Richmond, Vir-
ginia, is teaching preinduction classes in physics and night
classes in the War ‘Training Program in Engineering
Drawing.

Rev. Grover C. Gabriel was recently reelected for another
four-year term as District Superintendent of the Central
Pennsylvania Conference of the Evangelical Church and
assigned to Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. He has five children
who have grown up and scattered from the family nest.

Elmer W. Somers is practicing law in Accomac, Virginia.
He has his coupon troubles with two daughters and a wife
with only three shoe coupons a year. He thinks he will be
the one to wear half-soles.

T. Russell Cather is practicing law in Winchester, Virginia.
He says he is a rather busy, fairly successful country lawyer;
devoting much of his time to work as a member of the Se-
lective Service Appeal Board for northern Virginia. He is a
erandfather, a Presbyterian, takes a drink in moderation,
plays poor golf, worse poker; has worked hard, lived rather
well, and is not obligated except socially, to anybody on earth,
and believes at this point that the world owes him nothing.
Sounds like a good life to us.

J. M. Moore is Superintendent of Greenbrier Military
School, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He says his school is still
popular and they are still filled in spite of those who have
gone out. He is President of the Association of Military Col-
leges and Schools of the United States.

Grover A. Batten, M.D., is practicing his profession at 405
Dillingham Transportation Building, Honolulu, Hawaii. He
says the major part of his work at Washington and Lee was
done in Dr. Howe’s department and he considers the contact
with him as one of the most fortunate features of his career.

William F. Riser is with the New Sabinas Company, Lim-
ited, Cloete, Coah, Mexico. He says: “In my memory of
Washington and Lee Dr. Howe stands out more prominently
than any other individual instructor, probably because his
interest in his subject was stronger and more contagious than
the others, or it happened that I was more interested in his
subject.”

Luther Drake Harper is a contractor in Rocky Mount,
North Carolina. His address is 700 Sycamore Street.

Edward H. Deets is a civil engineer with the Maryland

State Roads Commission as Right of Way Examiner, a posi-
tion he has held intermittently since 1932, less some inter-
ruptions and excursions into other adventures. He has a boy
seventeen and a girl twelve.

W. H. Marquess, Jr., is in the life insurance business, 20th
Floor Rhodes-Haverty Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He has
two sons, both in the service.

1999

James B. Denny is practicing law in the Dickson Building,
Norfolk, Virginia. Both of his children are in active service.

Daniel K. Sadler is one of the Judges of the Supreme Court
of Mexico, Santa Fe, New Mexico. He says hardly a week
passes that he does not run into some old Washington and
Lee men and the conversation has not proceeded five minutes
until the old Alma Mater has entered into it

Melvin E. Cruser is practicing law in the National Bank of
Commerce Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Reuben Ragland is a member of the law firm of Ragland,
Kurz and Layton, Suite 608 Consolidated Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida. :

C. T. Dawkins is in the General Contracting business, 2424
Chicago Avenue, Tampa, Florida. Since Pearl Harbor he has
devoted all his energies to Air Corps construction and is not
allowed to comment on any features of the program.

S. N. Hoshour is City Collector for the City of Staunton,
Virginia. He gives no personal news.

Sorsby Jemison is an official of the Young and Vann Supply
Company, industrial supplies and heavy hardware, Birming-
ham, Alabama. His activities are confined to the industrial
plants in the Birmingham District who are making many
implements of war.

Elliott Vawter is Secretary of Barrows & Company, Inc.,
miners and shippers of steam, gas, by-products and domestic
coal, with offices in the First Huntington National Bank
Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

1910

William R. Laird, M.D., is Chief Surgeon, Laird Memorial
Hospital and President of the Board of Trustees of the Laird
Foundation, Montgomery, West Virginia.

Hugh Witt is in the insurance business, 310 American
Building, Richmond, Virginia. He gives no news of his per-
sonal activities.

Bronson LeHew Wood is pastor of the Piedmont Church,
Callaway, Virginia. For seventeen years his country manse
at Collierstown, was almost in the shadow of the University,
but now, with restricted gas rationing, he rarely gets back
te the campus.

Charles P. Robinson is president of the Business Service
Company, 802 Park Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He
gives no personal news.

Lawrence W. Wilson is President of the Greensboro Motor
Company, Greensboro, North Carolina.

W. L. Tilden is a member of the law firm of Tilden & Hays,
Florida Bank Building, Orlando, Florida. He has no sons, but
his two sons-in-law (one of them, Warren Edwards, W. & L..,

[ 13 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

39, Captain in the Marines) and two nephews are in the
service.

P. A. Herscher is cashier of the Kanawha Banking & Trust
Company of Charleston, West Virginia.

Beach M. Chenoweth lives at 2201 Crest Road, Birming-
ham, Alabama. He gives no news of himself.

James M. Carson is a member of the law firm of Carson
and Petteway, Congress Building, Miami, Florida. He has a
farm in Osceola County at which he spends all his spare
time, and which takes all his available gas.

1911

Ben P. Ainsworth has been ill with arthritis for some time
and spent most of the winter in Florida. He is now much
improved in health.

J. Granville Johnston, Lexington, Virginia, Route No. 6.
Between operating a farm, a part time engineering and sur-
veying business, looking after some rental property and the
Chairmanship of the Local Selective Service Board, he man-
ages to keep busy most of the time. His son, John William
Johnston graduated from Washington and Lee in 1940, and
is now in the Army Air Corps.

C. W. Tharpe is with the firm of Hardie & Caudle, clothing
store, 809 Market Street, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Henry C. McGavack is still in the shipping business. His
address is 35-55 80th Street, Jackson Heights, New York.

John T. Gray, Jr., is State Director of the Office of Price
Administrator for the State of Tennessee. His business
address is 713 Stahlman Building, Nashville, Tennessee.

Edward E. Brown is in the insurance business, with offices
in the Chattanooga Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
His son, E. E., Jr., B.A. 40, is a Captain, U.S.A.

J. Paxton Barclay is with the Pure Oil Company, 35 East
Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois. He has been with this com-
pany for twenty-two years, and is in charge of marketing
operations in the Midwest Zone which comprises, Illinois,
Michigan, and northern Indiana.

Harvey C. Eley is Sales Assistant to the Vice-President of
Socony-Vacuum Oil Company and is active in five divisions
from Denver to Cleveland and from Chicago through Ten-
nessee. He has been with this company for the past twenty
years. In World War I he was Captain of Artillery in France
and was in the St. Mihiel and the Argonne-sur-Meuse drives.

Henry W. Dew is vice-president in charge of sales of the
St. Joe Paper Company, Jacksonville, Florida. He says: “The
other night I heard Dr. Gaines over the radio speaking with
his usual choice language, clear cut expressions, and dignity.
We are mighty fortunate at Washington and Lee to have
such an able man at the head and I hope he will still be there
when my boy, who is now 12, enters the University.”

1912

Major S. Lynton Taylor is teaching at Riverside Military
Academy, Gainesville, Georgia.

James Summerville is first secretary of the American Em-
bassy in London, England, and since America’s entry into the
war has been supervising the work of the Embassy’s Eco-
nomic Warfare Division and acting as Liaison Officer with

the British Ministry of Economic Warfare. He was in this
ccuntry in March, and his class letter was written from
Washington. He expected to return to England immediately.

Theo R. Rice is assistant superintendent of agencies for the
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Hartford,
Connecticut.

Robert C. Hood is practicing medicine in The Doctors’
Building 3260 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia.

Arlos J. Herbert is judge of the Criminal Court of Harrison
County, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Francis J. Heazel is special counsel for the Metropolitan
Casualty Insurance Company, and other companies of the
Loyalty Group, 59 John Street, New York, N. Y. He is
supreme treasurer of the Knights of Columbus.

1913

Joe G. (“Rosy”) Glass is with the office of Tax Commis-
sioner, City of San Antonio, Texas in the Assessing Depart-
ment. He says they have a good bunch of Washington and
Lee men in San Antonio but they are too busy to get together
often.

Marion A. Stevenson is Minister of the Methodist Church,
Morristown District, Morristown, Tennessee. Both of his
children are in the Service; his daughter Ruth in the WAC’s,
and his son, Dick, in the Army Medical Corps. He says he is
plugging away as a Methodist Parson, and just now as the
superintendent of a large rural district in the eastern part of
the State of Tennessee, in the land of TVA dams.

Herbert T. Taylor, 3811 Fauquier Avenue, Richmond, Vir-
ginia, is a public accountant and tax counselor, and says in his
business one does not begin to live until after the 15th of
March. He has three sons, one in the Navy, one in the Army,
and the youngest, who is sixteen, in high school.

D. B. Causey lives at “Elsing Green,” Lustor Manor, Vir-
ginia. He does not give us any personal news.

Harvey B. Apperson represents the Twenty-first Senatorial
District of Virginia in the State Senate. His two sons are in
the service. His home office is in the Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia.

Herbert W. Wyant is practicing law in the First National
Bank Building, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Sam W. Maytubby, Jr., gives his address as 1712 N.W.,
38th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. He says they have
plenty of oil and gas and is sorry he can’t send us some.

Ryland G. Craft lives in Gate City, Virginia.

Eugene C. Dickerson is practicing law in the Liberty Trust
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He says the only thing unusual
that he has done, insofar as a Washington and Lee man is
concerned, is that he has not been in politics and has never
been a candidate for a public office.

Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug is practicing his profession in
Daytona Beach, Florida. With shortage of doctors, flu, and
other complications he says he works at least sixteen out of
twenty-four hours.

Harry Satterfield is in the brokerage business at 449 Tenth
Street. San Francisco, California. His home address is 503
Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco.

[ 14]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

G. Doak Davidson is with Gulf Oil Products, Bluefield,
West Virginia. He has charge of plants at Grundy, Virginia,
and Iaeger, West Virginia, but his home is still at Bluefield.

1914

Clarence R. Avery, member of the University Board of
Trustees, has been appointed to the National Association of
Manufacturers’ board of directors. He represents the Tennes-
see association group of the National Industrial Council. He
is president of the Chattanooga Glass Company, Chattanooga,
‘Tennessee.

Samuel H. Williams is practicing law in the Krise Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

William T. Lovins is one of the judges of the Supreme
Court of West Virginia. His home is at 1505 Virginia Street,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Ben D. Smith is practicing law in the First National Bank
Building, Somerset, Kentucky. He regrets that he cannot
serve in this war.

Dr. Vann M. Matthews is practicing his profession in
Charlotte, North Carolina. His address is Box i/it Charlotte,
but he gives us no personal news.

Maurice R. Dodd is teaching in the Kanawha County
Schools, Charleston, West Virginia.

J. C. Whetzel, is with the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corpora-
tion, Box 176, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Edward M. Craig lives at Bradley, New York. He gives no
personal news.

1915

Dr. L. Nelson Bell, who has spent many years as a Medical
Missionary in China, is now living at Montreat, North Caro-
lina. He was chief surgeon and administrative Superintendent
of the Tsingkiangpu General Hospital.

Richard W. (“Dick”) Fowlkes is still practicing medicine
in Richmond, Virginia, with offices in the Professional Build-
ing. He is also teaching in the Medical College of Virginia.

J. A. (“Jerry”) Burke is Division Superintendent of the
Appomattox County Public Schools, Appomattox, Virginia.

James E. Bear is in the Biblical Department, Union Theo-
logical Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. His oldest daughter,
Margaret, is a freshman at Agnes Scott College, his second
daughter is in Senior High School, Jimmy, Jr., has just
started school, and the baby is 24 years old.

Charles T. Lile is with the Koppers Company in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania. His home address is 1210 S. Negley
Avenue, Pittsburgh. He says unless we can get out the old
covered wagon he sees no chance of getting back to the
campus.

Herman Ulmer is a member of the law firm of Stockton,
Ulmer & Murchison, Barnett National Bank Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida.

Sayers F. Harman is with the Yukon Pocahontas Coal
Company, Rox 549, Tazewell, Virginia. He does not give us
any personal news.

Harry G. Stocks is a member of the law firm of Winger,
Reeder & Barker, Waltower Building, Kansas City, Missouri.

Regrets that he has not seen any of his old law class since
graduation, but he has pleasant memories of all: of them.

Taylor H. Stukes is a Justice of the Supreme Court of
South Carolina. His home is at 21 Boyce Street, Manning,
South Carolina.

1916

Bruce Woodruff is a member of the law firm of Woodruff,
Ward and Etheridge, Suite 929 Healey Building, Atlanta,
Georgia. One of his partners is Bill Ward, Jr., LL.B. 30, who
is now a Captain in the Army Air Force.

Sam Kohen, 2600 Colcord Avenue, Waco, Texas, says:
“Until 1938 when I moved to Waco, I was practicing in
Dallas, but also held the job of Adjudication Officer with the
Veterans Administration. My office here is the fourth largest
in the United States and we are now busily engaged in ad-
judicating claims of veterans of the present war as well as
all others since 1903. I can really get a picture of events from
my desk.” He was married in 1935 and has a daughter, age
four, who is his pride and joy.

)

Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., is the publisher of “Finance,” a trade
journal, with offices at 608 South Dearborn Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

Dr. Henry M. Rowan, M.D., is practicing medicine at 224
West State Street, Trenton, New Jersey. He gives no per-
sonal news.

Edmund Magers is with the State Department of Audits,
Atlanta, Georgia. His home is five miles from the center of
the City, near Emory University, 1468 Emory Road, N.E.,
Atlanta. He says he is wearing out a good set of tires for the
State.

J. Rives (“Ike”) Manning is president of the National Loan
and Insurance Company, Inc., of Roanoke Rapids, North
Carolina. He has been in the insurance business since January
1919, shortly after getting out of the Army World War LI.

 

Earl B. Rose, Class Agent for 1916—Law, practices in
Beattyville, and in the nearby counties in Kentucky. His home
is in Lexington, Kentucky. Both of his sons are in the service.

Selden S. McNeer is practicing law in the First Huntington
National Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia. He does
not give us any personal news.

George D. Shore, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
McLeod & Shore, Sumter, South Carolina.

Clyde H. Miller has been practicing law in Dayton, Ohio
since 1920. His offices are in the Winters National Bank
Building, and his home address is 631 Rockford Avenue,
Dayton, Ohio.

Paul R. Scott is a member of the law firm of Loftin,
Calkins, Anderson, Scott, & Preston, Ingraham Building,
Miami, Florida. Three other members of his firm, Senator
Loftin, Al McCarthy and George Clark are Washington and
Lee men. George Clark is a lieutenant in the Navy.

1917

Charles G. Peters is a member of the law firm of Mohler,
Peters & Snyder, 808 Security Building, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Brigadier General A. G. (“Galla”) Paxton has written a

[ 15 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

graphic description of swift capture of Kwajalein in the
Marshall Islands early in February, in a letter to his wife,
which was published in his home-town paper in Greenville,
Mississippi. General Paxton was in the Marshalls as a field
artillery observer.

John R. Brand is practicing law in Hobbs, New Mexico.
While he has no sons for the army he has contributed one
son-in-law, with another expected to go soon. His youngest
daughter is a Junior at the University of Colorado. His spare
time is consumed by the Victory Garden, Red Cross, and
about thirty correspondence chess games.

George N. Danielson has completed twenty-four years in
the United States Naturalization Service, and has smoked a
good many White Owl cigars in that time. He named his
daughter Virginia after the state where he received his legal
education. She is now nine years old.

Lafe B. Chafin is Prosecuting Attorney for Mingo County,
Williamson, West Virginia.

Will H. Brandon is president of the Mississippi State Hos-
pital Association, and editor of its official publication, Pro-
eressive Hospitals. He has two boys and one girl, ages 14,
1 and 6. His home is in Clarksdale, Mississippi.

John L. Early is practicing law at Sarasota, Florida, with
offices in the Palmer Bank Building. He has served three
terms in the State Legislature and is attorney for the Board
of Public Instruction of Sarasota, County.

E. L. (“Ned”) Hix is with the Electro Metallurgical Com-
pany, unit of the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation,
Niagara Falls, New York.

John L. Williams is now located at the main office of The
Bristol Company in Waterbury, Connecticut, and his home
address is 5000 Whitney Avenue, Mt. Carmel, Connecticut.

1918

Ed Campbell is a member of the law firm of Douglas,
Obear & Campbell, Southern Building, Washington, D. C.
He has a fine family, topped off by a pair of twins.

Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., is practicing law in Lexington,
Virginia, and owner and publisher of the Rockbridge County
News, weekly newspaper of Lexington. Class Agent for 1918
in °44.

Otto Stumpf is practicing law in the Mutual Building,
Richmond, Virginia. He says that twenty-five years ago war
put a damper on Washington and Lee Finals and he had
hoped for a grand reunion this year, but another war has
interfered. He would like to attend a reunion when these wars
are over.

Fulton Hoge gives his address as 433 S. Spring Street, Los
Angeles, California, but sends us no personal news.

Raymond Bear lives at 1401 Fairmont Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C. He gives no personal news.

1919

Lieutenant-Colonel Charles H. Taylor took his Ph.D. at
Harvard in 1927, after two years abroad in France, Belgium
and Italy. Married (in Paris) Fidelia L. Taylor, daughter of
a Vassar classics professor. Taught at Harvard in the field of
Medieval History, and received permanent rank in 1934. In

1942 was given the H.C.Lea Professorship of European His-
tory. He had been working for six years on the Origins of Par-
liamentary Institutions in France when the war loomed up and
interrupted everything. He was a hot interventionist, and got
a call to the Army in 1942—in the Publications Branch of G-2,
War Department. In July, 1943, a new Historical Branch was
started to coordinate all historical work in the Army and
cover the history of operations in the field for immediate
(classified) publication. This was a fine break for an historian
brought up on the Civil War and he has been Executive
Officer of the Historical Branch since the start. Entered the
service as Captain and is now a Lieutenant-Colonel. His wife
and two children are living in Washington.

Clifford McC. Peale is treasurer of United Public Utilities
Corporation, 20 North Wacker Drive, Chicago, where he has
been for a number of years. He is still unmarried but says he
is still looking, and hopeful.

Arthur M. Cromwell lives at 4970 Mt. Royal Drive, Eagle
Rock, Los Angeles, California. He has evidently become
completely acclimated, for he brags that he has had broccoli
from his garden since January 1, and is begging the neighbors
to eat the lettuce, so he can plant later crops. He says he is
what is called a “machinery consultant,’ called upon to find
a better and faster way to make every gadget known to war,
and then gets balled out because it wasn’t delivered yesterday.
His only son a six-foot, twenty year old, swell boy, is learning
to fly a plane for the Naval Aviation Corps.

Norman R. Miller lives at Ephrata, Pennsylvania, but he
does not give us any personal news.

T. Dewey Davis, M.D., is still practicing medicine in the
Professional Building, Richmond, Virginia. He is too busy to
write, but sends “best regards” to his classmates.

Henry P. Forker is president of the Buhl-Kimberly Cor-
poration, Sharon, Pennsylvania. He has two children, Henry
P.; TIE im the army; and Mary Belden, a student at Bryn
Mawr.

1920

Willis M. Everett was promoted from Lieutenant Colonel
to full Colonel in March, 1944, as announced by the War
Department. His home address is 2510 Rivers Road, Atlanta,
Georgia.

Selden Jones has law offices in the First Huntington Na-
tional Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Chet Shade is living now at 407 West Thornapple Street in
Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Ernest Townes is practicing law in Petersburg, Virginia,
where he is also Assistant Civil and Police Justice and Com-
missioner of Chancery of the Hustings Court.

James Hill is an attorney in Jacksonville, Florida, with
offices in the Atlantic National Bank Building.

George Mueller is now living at 51 Quaker Ridge Road,
Manhasset, Long Island.

Henry Trotter is in the automobile business in Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, dealing in Fords and Mercurys.

Ed Bailey is State Director of the Federal Housing Admin-
istration for Virginia, with offices in Richmond.

William Johnston is assistant sales manager for The Amer-
ican Sugar Refining Company, with offices at 120 Wall Street

[ 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in New York. In addition he is serving as president of the
Tenafly, New Jersey, Board of Education.

Jim McKown is in business with Wolff and McKown in
Waynesboro, Pennsylvania, dealing in quality furniture and
floor coverings.

1921

Judge B.F. Howard is mayor of his home town, Welch,
West Virginia. He served as Judge for eight years from 1929
to 1936.

Harry Burt is president of Malt-A-Plenty, Incorporated,
“America’s Finest Dairy Drink,’ in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Arthur Gilbert is living in Martinsburg, West Virginia. He
writes that “Mrs. Gilbert and I stayed over night in Lexing-
ton last fall, and it looked mighty good to me.”

Louis Cohn is associated with Armour and Company,
Limited, at 105 North Fifth Street, Monroe, Louisiana.

John Hoke is with the Potomac Construction Company in
Martinsburg, West Virginia. He writes that he is “plugging
as many hours a day as the sun and weather permit paving
airports for the government.”

Frank Pollock has recently been eransferred to the Bristol,
Virginia, branch of the Fire Companies’ Adjustment Bureau,
Incorporated. He was previously located in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

1922

Joe Silverstein is still located in Charleston, West Virginia,
practicing law in the Charleston National Bank Building.

Bleakley James is now living at 930 North Irving Street in
Arlington, Virginia. He has a son, Bleakley, Jr., who. will
enter Washington and Lee within a year or two.

George Taliaferro is still located in Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Bill McCann is employed by the New York Central Rail-
road, and is living at 413 Northern Avenue, New Castle,
Pennsylvania.

Floyd Daughtrey writes that he is finding plenty to do at
the present time in his lumber business at Emporia, Virginia.
Floyd is married and has one son.

1923

I. H. Streeper is located with the First National Bank and
Trust Company in Alton, Illinois.

Claude Shelton is now living in Hubbard, Texas.

Jack Lester’s present address is 4122 Normandy, Dallas,
‘Texas.

Charles Ross is practicing law in Tampa, Florida.

Everett Cummings is associated with the Pilot Mulls in
Kernersville, North Carolina, manufactures of flour and
poultry feeds. He is now living at 1738 Virginia Road,
Winston-Salem.

Fred Sattes is still with the Belle Alkali Company, manu-
facturers of chlorine products, in Charleston, West Virginia.

George Mason is president of Gem-Dandy, Incorporated, of
Madison, North Carolina, manufacturers of clothing.

1924

Tom Duncan is practicing law in Newport News, Virginia,
and dives at 311 Sixty-fourth Street.

Turner Rice and Ogden Shropshire are in Mobile, where
Turner is Trust Officer of the First National Bank, after being
with the National Bank Examiners for fourteen years, is
married and has an eleven year old daughter; he sees Shrop
about every day.

Lieutenant John Hendon turned over his parking and
service stations business to Howard Leake in Birmingham
last December, and went into the Navy. He is now in ground
school, assistant instructor in navigation for air cadets in

Florida.

Francis Plowman is General Sales Manager and a member
of the Board of Directors of the Scott Paper Company in
Chester, Pennsylvania. He has been with this company since
a short time after his graduation.

Jack Themas, member of the University Board of Trustees,
is teaching on the faculty of Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond, Virginia.

Charlie Stone takes the cake for diversity of activities. He
is a tobacco buyer, manager and buyer of a wholesale grocery
company, manager of a picture house and has a filling station
but has not had time to get married. His home is in Stone-
ville, North Carolina.

Harry Shuey is president of the Morganton Furniture Com-
pany in Morganton, North Carolina. Harry writes that he has
“been very busy making bunk beds for the Army, furniture
for the Treasury Department, and Airplane Wings for the
Navy.”

Charlie Phillips, living now in Richmond, Virginia, con-
tinues in the real estate business and is a candidate for the
Virginia House of Delegates in the August primary. Charlie,
Jr., “Buddy,” who was such a favorite with the students when
Charlie, Sr., and family were in Lexington while he was a
student, is now twenty-four and a Lieutenant in the Naval
Air Corps.

Paul Brawner wonders about our twentieth anniversary
next year. He has been Professor of English at West Virginia
University for eight years, coming there after several years
at the University of Illinois. A co-ed recently reported to your
Class Agent that he is “grand.”

Ken Hines continues as Assistant Attorney-General of
West Virginia, having served in that capacity for the last
eight years.

1925

Eddie Cameron is with the Department of Physical Edu-
cation at Duke University as acting athletic director.

Harold (“Al’) St. John, 18 Pearl Street, New York, N. Y..,
was the first to send in a response to his class agent’s letter.
He took a vacation in Florida, but came through Jacksonville
during a blackout, so failed to see his class agent.

Charles Heilig, 507 South Fulton, Salisbury, North Caro-
lina, continues to make mattresses. He has a good motto,
“Invest in Rest.” He soberly reminds us how tragic it is that
all this prosperity comes to us at such a terrible price.

William E. (“Bill”) Brock, Jr., 113 Chestnut Street, Chat-

tanooga, Tennessee, says there is no special news this year

EM.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee Unvversity

 

but, being in the candy business, he probably has had prob-
lems trying to get sugar.

1925 Law Class Motes

Meredith Baugher is with the firm of Williamson, Alley,
Baugher, and Burns, practicing law in West Palm Beach,
Florida. In his spare time he hunts and fishes.

John Strahorn is still teaching law on the faculty of the
University of Maryland Law School.

Clarence Hinkle is with the law firm of Hervey, Dow, Hill,
and Hinkle, practicing in Roswell, New Mexico.
1926

William H. Boyer is an Attorney and Counsellor at Law,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, with offices in the Wachovia
Bank Building.

William Randolph Cosby is in the Trust Department of

The Union Trust Company of Indianapolis, Indiana. His
address is 4727 North Capitol Avenue, Indianapolis.

W. Hill Brown is Attorney for the Commonwealth, Man-
assas, Virginia.

Andrew A. Payne is vice-president of the Kanawha Valley
Bank, Charleston, West Virginia. He is married and has three
children, a girl 13, and two boys 11 and 4.

Earl A. Cadmus is an Attoreny-at-Law, Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia.

Juan Navarro is living in Panama. His address is Box 956,
Panama City, Republic of Panama.

John Martin is associated with DuPont Company, and is
presently located in Wilmington, Delaware.

1927

Wilmot Kidd is practicing law in Sharon, Massachusetts.
He has a young son, Wilmot III, almost two years old. His
address is 182 East Street.

Al Taylor is with the General American Life Insurance
Company, National Bank Building, in Detroit, Michigan. He
is married and has a six year old son.

George Burks is now owner of Hummel and Meyer, In-
surance, of Louisville, Kentucky, with offices at 402 Wash-
ington Building.

Joe Lanier is living in West. Point, Georgia. He has three
children.

Luther Redcay is living in Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania. He is
Executive Director in Snyder County for the Pennsylvania
Department of Public Assistance. Luther has two daughters,
ages thirteen and ten.

William E. (“Steam”) Gage is managing a number of
mills around Memphis, and is associated with the Eastman
Cotton Oil Company of Jonestown, Mississippi.

1928

Philip D. Sprouse, Foreign Service Division, Department
of State, has been promoted from Secretary to Consul. He
has been in China since 1941.

Bill Luria is doing defense work with Luria Brothers and
Company, manufacturers of iron and steel works, in Phila-
delphia. He has a young son, born December 11, 1941.

Norman Robert Crozier, Jr., is with the O.P.A., Burt
Building, Dallas, Texas. His home address is 4722 Drane
Drive, Dallas, Texas.

Fred M. P. Pearse, Jr., Class Agent for ’28-A, lives at 1637
Underwood Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Russell Jordan is with the Lawyers’ Title Insurance Cor-
poration in Richmond, Virginia.

William C. Norman, is Assistant General Manager, Cros-
sett, Arkansas Companies manufacturing lumber, paper and
chemicals, Crossett, Arkansas.

Howard Busold is associated with the Royal Indemnity
Company in New York City. He has been doing American-
ization work with incoming aliens for the past several years.

Jim Nance is County Trustee of Crockett County, Ten-
nessee, and is president of the Young Democratic Clubs of
the state. He has three sons, ranging from eleven to three.

Joe Clower is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church,
Virginia Beach, Virginia.

1929

Albert Peyton Bush, Jr., is now assigned to the Bureau of
Aeronautics, Navy Department, Washington, D. C., with the
rank of Lieutenant (j.g.), US.N.R. He is living temporarily
at 3241 North Woodrow Street, Arlington, Virginia.

Charles Claunch is practicing law in Chattanooga, Ten-
nessee, with offices in the Chattanooga Bank Building.

Miller Heuser is practicing law in Norton, Virginia.

Sam Lancaster is in the legal department of the Texas and
Pacific Railroad, Dallas, Texas.

Campbell C. Hutchinson, Jr., president of the Northern
Louisiana local alumni chapter, is trying to keep his in-
surance agency going, along with serving as President of the
Shreveport Association of Insurance Agents and President
of the Shreveport Exchange Club. He has been teaching Pilot
Flight at one of the Shreveport high schools, and is now
instructing the Civil Air Patrol.

John Goodner Gill is now vice-president of Rider College,
located in Trenton, New Jersey.

Fred Proctor is an attorney-at-law in Victoria, Texas.

Walter Wilcox is employed in Boston, but is living at 121
Clifton Street in Belmont, Massachusetts.

Lewis F. Powell is a Major in the Army Air Force, serving
in England since the first of September, and later in North
Africa.

J. M. Shackelford is a Major, Ordnance Department, Head-
quarters, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland.

Norman E. Hawes is Associate Forester, South Forest
Experiment Station, doing work for the W.P.B. His address
is 4508 South Tonti Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

S 1930
Richard C. Ammerman, LL.B. ’39, one of a hundred leading

[ 18 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

American business men living in Paris, placed in.a concentra-
tion camp in December 1941, returned to this country on the
exchange ship Gripsholm. He had been in Paris since 1931.

Richard B. Rouse, has been named police judge for Bristol,
Virginia.
Frank Shipman is a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the United States

Naval Reserve, with the Naval Supply Depot, Clearfalls,
teh.

Edgar Bostwick is with the Travelers Insurance Company
of Hartford, Connecticut, located at present in Richmond,
Virginia. He has a daughter two years old.

Leonard Davis entered the army in January, 1944, and has
been stationed at Camp Barkeley, Texas.

Jim Hess writes us a nice letter but gives no news of him-
self from which we can write a class note. His address is
84-30 Abington Road, New Gardens 15, New York.

Gerald Grashorn is associated with the law firm of Winston,
Strawn and Shaw, First National Bank Building, Chicago,
Illinois. Gerald has two children: a boy and a girl.

Dawson Hall is associated with the law firm of Whitaker,
Hall, Haynes, and Allison in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Captain W. Edgar Waddell, U.S.M.C., went abroad with
the University of Virginia Medical Unit. In Italy the services
of Captain Waddell and two other surgeons were comman-
deered for first aid duty with front line troops on the Anzio
beachhead, in which area he is still located.

1931

Lt. (j.g.) Cromwell Thomas is in the U. $. Navy. His home
address is 149 Page Street, Kingston, Pennsylvania.

Fred Barron is a business specialist in the Lumber Branch
of the Office of Price Administration. He is living at 4400
Marble Hall Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

James Lytle is in the real estate business, with offices at
209 Gibbs Building, San Antonio, Texas. He says that he
would appreciate hearing from any of his old college friends,
who will write him at the above address.

George Lupton is still living in Lynchburg, Virginia, with
his home address at 456-Rivermont Avenue.

Paul Mabley is practicing law in Richmond, Michigan, hav-
ing received his Degree of Bachelor of Laws from Wayne
University in 1938. He has a son, Charles, now three years
old.

Dr. Hansford Thomas is still practicing medicine in Green-
ville, Virginia.

Sam Milliner is with the DuPont Rayon Company in
Wilmington, Delaware.

Horace Gooch is living at 24 Baxter Street in Worcester,
Massachusetts. He has one young daughter, Sally.

Sidney Clay is a Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces, sta-
tioned overseas.

Robert Brundage, M.D., is associated with the East Orange
General Hospital in East Orange, New Jersey.

Dr. Leonard Borland is practicing medicine in Oak Park,
Illinois, with offices on Oak Park Avenue and Garfield Street.

Jacob Weinberg is living in Washington, D. C., with offices
in the Woodward Building and with his residence address at
4514 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.

Don Tillar is located in Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina,
as Superintendent of the Distribution Department of the Vir-
ginia Electric and Power Company. He has two young boys.

Wiiliam Morris is living at 1599 Felton Road, South Euclid,
Ohio.

William Ballard is living at 104 Willowood Drive in Nor-
folk, Virginia.

Ralph Smoot is located with the forest service of the United
States Department of Agriculture in the Cumberland National
Forest. Ralph is living in Stearns, Kentucky, and has three
children.

1932

Woodson Gillock is with the DuPont Rayon Company in
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Jack Savage who has been practicing law in Charleston,
West Virginia is now in the United States Navy. Jack has
two children: a girl fifteen and a boy ‘six.

William Mulligan is practicing law with Winston, Strawn
and Shaw in Chicago. He is married and has three children
now six, four and two years old. His home is at 4069 Wood-
land Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois. He is serving this
year as Class Agent for 1932-A.

Wayne Mathis, who had been practicing law in Peoria,
Illinois; is now a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Naval Reserve. He
has a small daughter, born in February of 1943.

Major Charles Wood has been attached to the West Vir-
ginia State Headquarters of the Selective Service as. state
procurement officer.

George Speer is practicing law with offices in Sanford,
Florida. He is married and has two children.

Lyman Harrell is Commonwealth’s Attorney for Greens-
ville County, Virginia, with law offices in Emporia.

Richard Morrison is living at the Robert Driscoll Hotel in
Corpus Christi, Texas.

Frank Williams of 16701 Kenyon Road in Cleveland, Ohio
is now in the United States Army.

1933

F. E. (“Buck”) Lund is teaching in State Teachers College,
Madison, Wisconsin.

George Strouse is now practicing law in Norwich, Con-
necticut.

C. W. Kaufman is with General Foods Corporation, 1125
Hudson Street, Hoboken, New Jersey.

E. 8. Curtis is an Internal Revenue Agent, 119 East Vaughn
Street, Kingston, Pennsylvania.

John A. Womeldorf is serving as pastor of the Cedar Bluff-
Richlands Presbyterian Churches, Richlands, Virginia.

Ernest McLellan is living at 1430 State Street, New Or-
leans, Louisiana.

Thomas Everngam was recently appointed an Assistant

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Attorney-General of Maryland. He has, for the past two
years, been associated with the United States Attorney’s
Office, for the District of Maryland, as an Assistant United
States Attorney and has been actively engaged in trial work.

Henry Foote is now managing the Foote Lumber Company
in Alexandria, Louisiana. Henry’s third son was born last
summer.

Eben Jackson is with Wire Products, Incorporated, in
Lynn, Massachusetts.

Edwin Chittum is principal of the New Hope, Virginia,
High School.

Robert Kaplan has been serving in the Army Medical
Corps. He says he was a big business man four months ago,
but now he is a lowly private stationed in a forgotten corner
of Mississippi.

Frank E. Calhoun is Assistant Chief, Engineering Branch,
Military Projects Division United States Engineer Office,
Denison, Texas. He married Elizabeth Deaver of Lexington,
and they have two sons, Eddie, five years old and Jim, two
and a half. He was a visitor to the campus in September.

Carl Vickers is Prosecuting Attorney for Fayette County,
West Virginia. There are some twelve Washington and Lee
alumni serving in various posts in the county government
of this county.

1934

Eugene N. S. Girard, American Red Cross field director,
whose safe arrival in England has been announced, is a former
resident of Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania. He graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1934 with the degree of Bachelor of
Arts, magna cum laude, and did graduate work at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania. ~

Albert Fowler is still with the Belleville Hotel Company in
Belleville, [linois.

James Phelps is located in St. Louis, Missouri. His home
address is 7 Hanley Downs in that city.

John Shroder is living at 174 Gillette Avenue in Springfield,
Massachusetts.

Jesse Leigh gives his home address as Hamlet, North
Carolina.

Richard Grafton is located with the Trenton Branch Office
of the New York Life Insurance Company in Trenton, New

Jersey.

Sam Engelhardt is a farmer-merchant in Shorter, Alabama.
He has two young sons.

1935

John David Walls, U.S.N.R., of 1412 “O” Street, Bedford,
Indiana, has completed his training and reported to the U. S.
Naval Armed Guard Center in New Orleans, Louisiana for
assignment to duty as commander of a Navy gun crew ona
merchant ship. The Armed Guard officer will be charged with
the defense of the vessel in case of enemy attack.

Robert H. McCauley, Jr., spent five years after leaving
Washington and Lee at Cornell University studying Zoology,
etc., and in September 1940 received his Ph.D., taught at
Goddard College. Since June 1942 has been a biologist for
the State of Vermont, and is now in the employ of the Ver-

mont Fish and Game Service. He was married in 1938, and
nasa son, Robert, 11.

Augustus Morgan, of IRTC Headquarters, now on special
duty with the Officers’ School, has been promoted to the
grade of captain. Formerly he was assigned at Fort Ogle-
thorpe, Georgia, receiving his commission through Officer
Candidate School at Fort Benning, Georgia, later Camp
Walters, Texas.

Jim Woods is traffic manager for the Pennsylvania Glass
Sand Corporation in Lewiston, Pennsylvania. He is also
part-owner and vice-president of radio station WMRF, which
he founded. He has a son three years old.

Bill Wiglesworth is serving in the United States Coast
Guard, presently rated as a first class petty officer.

David MacDonald is practicing law in Durant, Oklahoma.

Bill Fowlkes is a member of the law firm of Bobbitt, Street
and Fowlkes in San Antonio, Texas, with offices in the South
Texas Bank Building.

Edwin Coulbourn is a member of the law firm of Coulbourn
end McLemore in Suffolk, Virginia. His second daughter, Ann
Tilghman, was born on January 4, 1943.

1936

Stuart T. Miller is now a factory auditor for Western
Electric Company at 100 Central Avenue, Kearny, New
Jersey.

Charles Willis Wilkerson, U.S.N.R., when last heard from
was at Princeton, training for sea duty.

Charles A. Sweet, Jr., is a Lieutenant (j.g.) U.S.N.R. His
home address is 135 Washington Street, Brighton, Massa-
chusetts.

John Renkin has been attached to Fort Monmouth, New
Jersey, as Regimental Sergeant Major.

Martin Kaplan is a Lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps.

Lieutenant Kenneth G. MacDonald is in the United States
Medical Corps, somewhere in England. Mail will be forwarded
to him from 103 Middle Road, Hilltop Manor, Wilmington,
Delaware.

1937

Major Barnum Coolidge, 116 S.E. 15th Avenue, Fort Laud-
erdale, Florida, recently returned from service outside the
continental United States, now is being processed through
the Army Air Forces Redistribution Station No. 2 in Miami
Beach, Florida, where his next assignment will be recom-
mended. Major Coolidge flew 23 missions during eighteen
months as a B-17, B-24, B-25 pilot in the Southwest Pacific.
Credited with the destruction of one enemy aircraft, he was
awarded the Silver Star and the Air Medal with oak leaf
cluster.

George Hall is a Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces, sery-
ing as a glider pilot.

Lt. C. Arnold Matthews, U. S. Naval Reserve, after two
years in the Atlantic, has been transferred to the Pacific as
Supply Officer.

Doctor Souther Tompkins, who has just completed his
interneship at the University of Pennsylvania hospital, has

| 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

gone to Rochester, Minnesota, where he has a fellowship in
surgery in the Mayo clinic.

Bill Wilbur, of the Army Air Forces, is attached to a Ferry-
ing Command Squadron as a radio mechanic.

Ensign Alex Abrahams, of the Naval Reserve, has been
serving on the district staff at the headquarters of the Fourth
Naval District, Cape May, New Jersey.

Robert Radcliff, who received his M.S. in Chemistry from
Pennsylvania State, is now living at 502 Maple Avenue,
Trenton, New Jersey.

Cowl Rider has an article in February 5, 1944 issue of the
“Saturday Review of Literature” entitled “What has become
of the Limerick?” He is on the staff of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, and his home address is 2523 Grove Avenue, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Donald Chancey Redfield, Jr., has been promoted from lst
Lieutenant to Captain. He is with the Weather Service, Army
Air Forces.

Duane Berry is now located with the Atlanta branch of the
Armstrong Cork Company in the Glass and Closure Division.

Howell Roberts has been doing classification work with the
Army at Camp Upton, New York, later at Mitchell Field,
Hempstead, New York.

Herbert Fenner is with the overseas engineering depart-
ment of the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company.

Horace Bachelder is teaching German and History in the
Junior College at Riversdale Military Academy in Gainesville,
Georgia. He was married in December of 1942 to Miss Evan-
geline Morris of Ripley, Tennessee.

Jimmy Rice is serving in the Army Finance Department as
Assistant Finance Officer of the 80th Infantry Division.

Frank Crew is operating the F. D. Crew Company, doing
defense work in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He is married
and has a baby daughter, Marsha.

Mickey Cochran is now War Agency Co-ordinator, work-
ing for the Caspers Tin Plate Company in Chicago. He has a
daughter, Carol, two-years old this May.

Dexter Hobbie is working for the Pennsylvania-Central
Airlines in them Flisht School at- Roanoke, Virginia; as) a
Link Trainer Operator.

William Connor is junior member of the firm of Connor
Brothers, Inc., in Dangerfield, Texas. He has a wife and baby
two years old.

1938

Joseph Turpin Drake, jr., is an Ensign in the United States
Navy.

William E. Wiltshire, Jr., gives his address as 2 Westham
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia, but gives no news of himself.

John Capito formerly with the United Carbon Company in
Charleston, West Virginia is now an Ensign in the United
States Navy.

George Steinberg is a first class petty officer in the Navy.
Charles Clarke is serving in the Army now, after having

received his law degree from the University of Michigan Law
School.

Bill Byrn, who was a reporter on the Baltimore Sun, is
now an Ensign in the Naval Reserve. He was married in De-
cember of 1942 to Miss Jane Nicholls of Winnipeg, and is
now living at Key West, Florida.

Bill Hillier, 1st Lieutenant in the Army, is now serving as
regimental intelligence officer of his outfit.

Lt. Vernon Thaddeus Strickler, Jr., is with the Seventh
Army Air Forces in the Central Pacific. He has had service
in the Pacific and South Pacific.

Lt. Kester Walker Denman, Jr., is serving on a PT boat
in the South Pacific area under the command of Lt: Alfred
G. Vanderbilt.

Ensign Jack Neil, of the Naval Reserve, has been stationed
in Mississippi.

Lee Bivins is training in the United States Army Air Forces.

Compton Broders finished his senior year in medicine at
the Medical College of Virginia recently and is planning a
year’s interneship in the Middle West.

Paul Miller is attached to the Naval Construction Battalion
at Camp Peary, Virginia.

Arthur Alexander is serving on the staff of “Yank,” the
Army weekly, as District Supervisor of the West and South-
west United States.

James Beale is stationed at the Naval Air Station in Nor-
folk, Virginia.

Gilbert Meem is working with the Meems-Haskins Coal
Corporation of Bluefield, West Virginia, as assistant to the
president.

1939
Lieutenant James Rogers is a pilot in the Army Air Forces.

Philip Grabill is now a Lieutenant in the Army of the
United States.

Victor Radcliffe is a Captain in the United States Army Air
Forces.

Frank B. O’Connor is in the producticn department of the
Electric Boat Company of Groton, Connecticut.

Andy Eastwick, Jr., has his own business, The Maryland
Valve & Faucet Company, Baltimore, Maryland.

John J. Davis, Jr., is practicing law with the firm of Davis,
Boehl, Viser & Marcus, Louisville, Kentucky.

Arthur Basile is now minister of South High Street Baptist
Church in Columbus, Ohio.

Herbert Sigvarsten is now located at Cristobal in the Canal
Zone.

Lieutenant John Sherrill is serving with the Armored
Forces of the United States Army.

Tom Bryant is now in the Army of the United States.

Ensign John Wright has been stationed at the Naval Air
Station in Pensacola, Florida.

Henry Baldock has been stationed at Fort Logan, Colorado.

Robert Milligan has been serving in the Army’s Personnel
Division.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Cecil Hardy is Assistant Secretary-Treasurer of the Laird
Office Equipment Company, and a partner in Waller C. Hardy
& Company, Charleston, West Virginia.

Ensign Herndon Turpin has been assigned to the Peary
Ships Company at Williamsburg, Virginia.

Lieutenant G. William Swift, Jr., is a first pilot on a Liber-
ator in the South Pacific. He has received a Silver Star Medal
for bringing in a burning plane, also an Air Medal and sev-
eral Oak Leas Clusters.

John MacKenzie is an Ensign in the United States Navy.

Fielden Woodward has been practicing law with offices in
the Kentucky Home Life Building in Louisville, Kentucky.
He is now in the U.S. Army.

Philip Yonge, Army of the United States, has been serving
in the regional OPA office in Atlanta, Georgia.

S. R. Weinsier has been assigned to the Post Quarter-
master at the New York Port of Embarkation.

Jim Paera is now working in Washington, D. C.
Alan Brombacher is working in Brevard, North Carolina.

Edgar Basse is associated with the Piggly-Wiggly San An-
tonio Company in San Antonio, Texas.

Edgar Stuart is located with the Tan-Kar Oil Company in
Montgomery, Alabama.

Lieutenant Francis P. Gaines, Jr., is now stationed in Ar-
lington, Virginia.

Hugh Putnam Avery has been Personnel Director of the
Lake Erie Engineering Corporation, Buffalo, New York, for
the past year and a half. He was married on October 31 to
Miss Cecilia Culbertson of Philadelphia and Indianapolis,
Indiana, and they are living at 12 Rockne Road, Kenmore,
New York.

Robert Brower is a Lieutenant in the Army of the United
States, stationed overseas.

Charles Midelburg is an Ensign in the Navy, stationed with
the Pacific Fleet.

Rogers Cox gives his address as care of Mrs. Beverly E.
Cox, but gives no news of himself.

1940

Lt. John C. White is in the Army of the United States, at-
tached to the Oklahoma Selective Service Headquarters in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Newton Harman has been working on the Legal Staff of
the Office of Price Administration in Charleston, West
Virginia.

Lt. Charles Curl is flying for Panama Airways in South
America, operating out of Lima, Peru.

Ensign Homer Jones has been instructing in Naval Admin-
istration at the Naval Training School, Harvard University.

Captain Bob Gaddy is a squadron commander with the
Army Air Forces.

Bill Read has been teaching English at Staunton Military
Academy.

Ensign Gray Carpenter has been serving as Public Rela-
tions Officer at the Naval Air Station in Daytona Beach,
Florida.

Watson James is now with the United States Army Med-
ical Corps.

Bill Burner has been working in Chicago on the staff of
the railroads, handling the wage cases being heard there by
the President’s emergency board.

Louis L. Clinton, Jr., has changed his address from Pueblo,
Colorado to 1637 East 17th Street, Denver, Colorado.

Paul Wile is now an Ensign in the United States Navy.

Ted Smith is working for the Wright Aeronautical Corpor-
ation in West Palm Beach, Florida.

A. D. Jamieson, Jr., has been stationed in Massachusetts as
a Lieutenant in the Coast Artillery.

Lt. (j.g.) Ed Miller has been serving in the United States
Navy for over two years now.

Captain Franklin Nichols has been stationed in New Guinea
with the Army Air Forces.

Jack §. Hunter, Jr., Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces has
been on duty in the Caribbean area. Lt. Hunter was awarded
the Air Medal for anti-submarine patrol flights over the
Atlantic.

Leslie Price still has offices in the Kanawha Valley Build-
ing in Charleston, West Virginia.

Reid Brodie is now Assistant Superintendent of the Western
Division of the Sohio Pipe Line Company, and has a young
scn who is now two years old.

Bob Powers has been doing construction work with the
United States Engineer Office in Wilmington, North Carolina.

Joe Hunter is working for the Curtiss-Wright Aircraft
Plant in St. Louis, building dive bombers for the Army.

Alfred Kreiger is serving overseas with the Army’s Per-
sonnel Branch.

Jerry Heldman is an assistant linen buyer in Cincinnati’s
largest department store.

George Grasty has been working as Junior Training Tech-
nician with the Office of the Quartermaster General in Wash-
ineton, D.C.

George Chaney is with the Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company in Roanoke, Virginia.

John Levering, whose home is at 11 South Boulevard,
Richmond, Virginia, is now in the Army of the United States.

James Willis is a Lieutenant in the Cavalry and has been
stationed recently in California.

Arthur Porter is at present an economist with the National
War Labor Board in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Hamilton Disbrow, United States Naval Reserve, has been
stationed in South America.

Uriah Coulbourn is associated with the Coulbourn Lumber
Company in Windsor, North Carolina.

Alton Farber has been attending Officer’s Candidate School
at Grinnell, Iowa.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1941

John W. Campbell, after leaving the USS Brooklyn, went
tc submarine school in New London, and is now on the USS
Greenling, c/o FPO San Francisco, California.

Bob Adams is a Line Supervisor in the Trojan Powder
Company’s TNT plant at Sandusky, Ohio. He is in charge
of operations and maintenance of one of the company’s lines
at Plum Brook Ordnance Works.

Arthur Carman is serving in the Army of the United States
at Peekskill, New York.

Cameron Dean has been attached to the Naval Air Station
at Pensacola, Florida, as aide to the Executive Officer.

Fred B. Farrar has been promoted to First Lieutenant at
the Aireraie Warnine Unit Training Center, Drew Fieid,
Tampa, Florida, where he is an officer in the personnel di-
vision.

Louis A. Paterno gives his address as Security Trust Build-
‘ 5 2.
ing, Charleston, West Virginia, but gives no news of himself.

Charlie Thalhimer is with the Newport News Shipbuilding
Corporation.

Charles Chapman is an Ensign and is serving aboard the
destroyer, Hilary P. Jones.

Roy Bartlett is serving with the U.S. Army at Camp
McCain, Mississippi.

Eugene Hunter is serving as Junior Personnel Assistant
in the United States Department of Labor.

Captain Arthur Clarendon Smith, of the United States Ma-
rine Corps, has recently returned from the New Hebrides
Islands where he was attached to the headquarters squadron
of a Marine air wing. His family lives in Washington, D. C.

1942

Lt. Harold C. Pierce was wounded in the fierce battle for
“Morphine Hill,’ as reported in an Army release received in
the Alumni Office March 8, 1944. “Hit in the knee and chest
by mortar shell fragmentation, Lieutenant Pierce remained
at his post throughout the night of fighting. Lieutenant Pierce
and his infantry platoon participated in the assault landing
here, and took a leading role in an early engagement, known
as “The Crossing of the River,” a three-day battle. The
Lieutenant’s platoon was credited with wiping out a Jap
rifle squad and a machine gun squad in the bloody river
fighting, his own outfit suffering heavy losses.”

Ensign Robert Walker, who took part in the Anzio invasion,
has been home on a short leave.

Captain John Lyle Campbell, Jr., has been visiting his
parents in Lexington, Virginia, after a year overseas. He is
wearing Pacific-Asiatic and American area ribbons, with a
star denoting one campaign, that of Bougainvile. He re-

ported to Camp Lejeune in April.

Lieutenant Charles Peale Didier has been overseas since
August, 1943. He was recently made Battalion Adjutant.

First Lt. James R. Sterrett has the all-important job of
forecasting the weather for bombing missions against Europe
in his capacity as meteorologist.

Lieutenant Lawrence John Fisher recently returned from

service outside the continental United States. He flew thirteen
missions as a B-25 pilot over Africa, Italy and Sicily. He
suffered burns when his plane caught fire in a crash landing
in Salerno after the plane had been shot up. He was awarded
the Purple Heart and the Air Medal.

1943

Al Darby, Jr., is working on the “News Leader” in Rich-
mond. His address is 2030 Monument Avenue, Richmond 20,
Virginia.

Captain Arthur Herbert LaMontagne, U.S. Army Air
Force, has been awarded the Air Medal and several Oak Leaf
Clusters. He is stationed in the Pacific.

First Lt. Henry C. Peeples, who is now a prisoner of war
in Germany, received the Air Medal for “Meritorious Achieve-
ment” as a pilot of a Flying Fortress from England over
Germany in September, 1943. Lt. Peeples is from Atlanta,
Georgia.

Naval Aviation Cadet Edwin F. Robb, Jr., Minneapolis,
Minnesota, received his Navy wings as a blimp pilot and a
commission as an Ensign in the Naval Reserve on April 3,
1944, Upon completion of flight training he will be assigned
to duty with a blimp squadron as a pilot, for anti-submarine
duty.

1944

Private Cullen F. Wimmer has been wounded in the At-
lantic or Mediterranean theatre. He suffered a head wound,
but has now about recovered fully.

Lieutenant James Kidd, Lexington, Virginia, bombardier
on a Flying Fortress, and his buddy, a co-pilot, having sur-
vived a two-hour running gunfight over Germany and three
hours in an open boat on the North Sea, where they had been
ditched after being shot to pieces, thought they were entitled
to some recreation, and started out for leave in London. ‘They
had the misfortune to board one of two trains involved in
England’s worst railway wreck of the year. Both were seri-
ously injured: Kidd had a fractured pelvis and severely
burned legs. He received much blood plasma which helped
his quick recovery from shock. He is eager to return to duty
but will be skittish about railway trains for some time.

1945

Lt. Robert Bruce McCutcheon of 518 Chestnut Street,
Waban, Massachusetts, was a member of the 24th class of
aviation cadets to graduate from the Columbus Army Air
Field near Columbus, Mississippi on April 15, 1944. He re-
ceived the silver wings of a Flying Officer and commission
as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Forces.

Elmer B. Tarleton of 65 Ward Place, South Orange, New
Jersey, has been commissioned a Second Lieutenant and Pilot
in the air forces of the Army of the United States.

Frederick R. Cottrell was awarded the Silver Star in recog-
nition of meritorious service and bravery in action. He has
also been awarded the Purple Heart.

1946

Lieutenant William Wright Daniel received the silver wings
of an Army Air Force pilot on February 8, 1944. He is the
son of Dr. and Mrs. Walter Wright Daniel of Atlanta, Georgia.

[23 ]

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

A LTHOUGH a large order for Washington
and Lee plates was placed many months ago only a small shipment has
been ccahed in dis country, and we have no assurance as to further
deliveries.

The Alumni Office has been overwhelmed with orders for plates
since the advertisement appeared in the January issue of the magazine,

and we have no plates for sale until a further shipment is received.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

