 

aGaZzine

Washington and Lee University

 

A

NOVEMBER, 1944

 

 

* * * *

George Gordon Alford, 42, Aviation Cadet, killed in airplane
crash near Sioux City, Iowa, January 25, 1944.

Charles James Andrews, °37, American Field Service, killed
in Italy on the field of battle, December 8, 1943.

Lt. Glenmore Murrell Ash, °40, Army Air Force, killed in
raid over Hanover, Germany, September 27, 1943.

Lt. Ross Beason, Jr., '43, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash in North Africa, April 15, 1944.

Lt. Robert Shimler Boyce, °41, killed in plane crash, April 29,
1942. “First alumnus killed in World War II.”

Lt. Richard Clarence Burton, '42, Army Air Force, killed in
plane crash, September 13, 1942

Paul Haynes Cagle, 47, American Field Service, attached to
British Army, killed in action in Italy, September 5, 1944.

Capt. Lloyd Robert Cole, 40, Army Air Force, died in a Ger-
man Field Hospital.

Cpl. William E. Darnall, Jr., ’32, died in camp at Ft. Macon,
North Carolina, April 4, 1942.

2nd Lt. Julian LeRoy Dart, Jr., 39, Army Air Force, killed
in crash of a heavy bomber near Pyote, Texas, July 18, 1943.

Lt. (j.g.) William Theodore Delaplaine, III, ’39, Naval Air
Corps, killed in plane crash at Oakland, California, April
27, 1943.

Lt. Enoch Claybourn DeVane, Jr., °43, U.S. Marine Corps
(Naval Aviator), killed in night flight from marine air
base at Santa Barbara, California, July 29, 1943.

Capt. Barclay Hugh Dillon, Jr., °36, Army Air Force, killed
in plane crash 15 miles from Pensacola, October 4, 1943.

Stanley Allen Douglas, Jr., '39, Army Air Force, killed in
action in Alaska, June 11, 1942.

Lt. Edward Roessler Downie, ’40, Army Air Force, killed in
crash of a Liberator bomber in Utah, January 26, 1944.
John Haws Edwards, Jr., °45, killed in action at Anzio beach-

head in Italy, March 7, 1944.

Lt. Thomas Martin Ford, Jr., 43, Army Air Force, killed in
plane crash in North Africa, March 12, 1944.

Robert William Gary, Jr., 41, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash, February 5 or 6, 1944.

Capt. John Benjamin Gillespie, III, 40, Marine Corps, killed
in action in November, 1942.

Lt. Paul Emile Gourdon, Jr., 41, Army, killed in action in
France, July 11, 1944.

David Wright Hancock, ’38, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash, July 29, 1941.

Charles Troy Hickman, °45, Army Air Force, killed in ac-
tion, June 20, 1944.

Lt. Robert Edward Holland, Jr., 36, Naval Air Corps, killed
in plane crash, April 5, 1944.

William Clarence Hood, °45, reported killed in action in Italy,
February 2, 1944.

Lt. Douglas Wayne House, °42, U.S. Army, killed in action
in Italy, December 14, 1943.

Lt. James Robert Howard, °42, U.S. Army, killed in action
on Western Front while serving with Lt. General Hodges’
First Army, September 24, 1944.

Lt. John Michael Jenkins, Jr., °37, Army Air Force, died Sep-
tember 16, 1943.

Lt. Samuel Tipton Jones, 39, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash, October 22, 1942.

Lt. William Corwin Jones, 42, Marine Corps, killed in action
in Central Pacific, July 30, 1944.

Roll otf Honor *« *« «* *

Lt. fae Justice, 42, Marine Corps, killed in action in August,

Lt. Robert Henry Keim, Jr., 41, Marine Corps Air Arm, killed
in action, May, 1943.

2nd Lt. George Simms Keller, 43, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve,
killed in a plane accident in Hawaii, November 8, 1944.

Robert Alfred Kemp, °39, Army Air Force, killed in action.
(No date given.)

Lt. John McDowell King, ’45, Naval Air Corps, killed in plane
crash in Italy, May 4, 1944.

Ensign Samuel Givens McFadden, ’41, Naval Air Corps, killed
while in training at Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., March 4, 1943.

Lt. John Ireland Macey, ’38, U.S. Army, killed in vehicular
accident in Italy, July 14, 1944.

Lt. Parker Jones Matthews, '41, Army Air Force (Pilot), killed
in plane crash, Venice, Florida, December 3, 1942.

Richard Erwin Mayo, °43, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash off Pacific coast. (No date given.)

Lt. James Patterson Rogers, 39, Army Air Force, killed in
action over Germany in 1944.

Lt. Robert Burch Secord, 38, Army Air Force (Navigator),
killed in crash of four-motor bomber, Madill, Oklahoma,
January 6, 1943.

John Henry Sherman, '37, Army Air Force, reported killed
in action over Germany, February 26, 1943.

William Carter Shinn, ‘46, Army Air Force, killed in plane
crash in South Dakota, July, 1944.

Ensign Aubrey Lee Simpson, Jr., '40, Naval Air Corps, killed
in plane crash at sea, April 15, 1943.

George Stanley Slusser, '46, U.S. Army, killed in action in
Italy, September 26, 1944.

Set. Joseph Overstreet Stagg, Jr., 45, Army Air Force, killed
in action over Burma, February 25, 1944.

Richard Burton Steelman, °39, Royal Canadian Air Force,
ranked as L,.A.G., killed in routine flight on duty near
Hamilton, Canada, January 6, 1943. ,

Lt. Jock Arnold Revelle Stewart, '39, Army Air Force, killed
in plane crash in Tampa, Florida, September 18, 1942.
Capt. Neumon Horne Taylor, 41, Army Air Force, killed in
combat over China, acting as navigator in a B-29, July 29,

1944.

2nd Lt. Emil Emanuel Tomchik, '37, Army Air Force, killed
in crash of a Flying Fortress, Logan, New Mexico, July 17,
1943.

Lt. Taylor Simmons Trueheart, ‘41, Marine Corps Air Arm,
killed in plane crash in the South Pacific. (No date given.)

Lt. Chandler Sargent Whipple, '43, Army Air Force, killed in
action while piloting a B-25 near Madang, New Guinea,
October 5, 1943.

2nd Lt. George Baker Wickersham, °38, Army Air Force,
killed in England, August 7, 1944.

Lt. George Cooley Willcox, ’25, U.S. Navy, killed while leav-
ing Dutch Harbor, Alaska, for a new base, when his plane
crashed, July 2, 1943.

Lt. Stevenson Archer Williams, 44, Army Air Force, killed
when two Flying Fortresses collided in mid-air and plunged
into Gulf of Mexico, September, 1943.

Lt. Brooks Chapman Young, °41, Marine Corps Air Arm,
killed in plane crash in South Pacific, news released Feb-
ruary 20, 1943.

Lt. William Stevenson Young, 40, Army Air Force, killed
while flying a B-26 over Corsica, May 2, 1944.

* 2,974 *

 

 

Appalachian—George W. Summerson, '27, Ho-
tel General Shelby, Bristol, Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, '16, 1600 Arch St.,
Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Alex M. Hitz, ‘14, 1042 Citizens and
Southern National Bank Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Latimer G, Young, ‘40,
2906 Guilford Avenue

Birmingham, Alabama—Ed Aull, Jr., 1210 21st
Place, South

Central Kentucky—Joe L. Arnold, '37, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge
Sale, '24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga, Tennessee—C. R. Avery, ‘14,
Chattanooga Glass Company

Chicago, Illinois—William Fowler Symonds,
°33, 1040 Judson Avenue, Evanston, IIl.

Cincinnati, Ohio—E. Clyde Hoge, '07, 1426 Clay
Street

Charlotte, North Carolina—John L. Crist, ‘13,
Box 1045

Cleveland, Ohio—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union
Commerce Building

Covington, Virginia—Car! V. Harris, ‘28, P. O.
ox 667

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit, Michigan—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320
East Grand Boulevard

Florida West Coast—John M. Bell, ‘21, P. O.
Box 1288, Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miami, Florida

Houston, Texas—J. L. Lockett,'29, Acting Sec-
retary, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida—Bruce F. Gannaway,’25,
1211 Naldo

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., ‘39,
Kentucky Home Life Building

Lynchburg, Virginia—C. Lynch Christian, ‘16,
Consolidated Coal Company

Memphis, Tennessee—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler,
'37, 4158 Tuckahoe Lane

New York, New York—Roy J. ae? aaa
North Broad Street, Ridgewood, New Jer-
sey

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert Jahncke, ’30,
814 Howard Avenue

Norfolk, Virginia—Walter E. Hoffman,'31, Na-
tional Bank of Commerce Building

Northern eee eee C. Hutchinson,
Jr. 323 Commercial Building, Shreve-
port Coolatues

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg, West Virginia—Claude P. Light,
‘06, Court House

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—Norwood E. Band,
"34, 3422 "Warden Drive

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania—C. P. Robinson, ’10,
806 Park Building

Pocahontas Club—A. L. Tyree, '24, P. O. Box
307, Bluefield, West Virginia

rt Virginia—Judge Carleton E. Jew-
ett, , 1500 West 41st Street

en Re tea Courtney King,'21, 512
State and City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio, Texas—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15.
505 Brady Building

-. Louis, Missouri—William C. Edwards, ’32.
5142 Westminster Place

Tri-State—James E. Moore, '19, 205 South Bou-
levard, Huntington, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—L. Leslie Helmer, '36, 819 Mt.
Royal Avenue, Cumberland, Maryland
Washington. D. C.—William O. Burtner, ‘17,
ihe North Upton Street, Arlington, Vir-

inia

Waynesboro, Virginia—William C. Rafter "16,
373 Wayne Avenue ef

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Kntered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XX NOVEMBER, 1944 No. 1

 

 

 

AGO... Se Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Whs.c< aeeee Kr WixttiAmMs, 1915
RIGO Yo ier Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Soret. ees P. C. WuitLock, 1929

President

Treasurer.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
RocEr J. BEAR, 1914
Joun L. Crist, 1913
(j.g.) Ricuarp T. Epwarps, 1933
Rosert P. Hogson, 1914
Kr Witiiams, 1915
Joun W. Dryer, 1920
J. W. Mirngr, 1915
P. C. Warrock, 1929

oP

Our Cover and Frontispiece

THE COVER—Yes, it’s the back campus, but didn’t
you have to take a second look? This is the first time this
scene has been published.

THE FRONTISPIECE—Major C. P. (Casey) Lewis,
U.S. Marine Corps, Washington and Lee, ’40, returns to the
campus for a visit after 26 months of action in the South
Pacific. He is shown leaving Washington College with his
bride of a few days. (See Class Note).

   

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Coming Back

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

 

ON THE OPPOSITE PAGE of this Magazine, as showed to
me in advance by the editor, is illustrated one of the
happiest of the episodes that occur on this campus. A
former student is back, incidentally with a lovely life’s
partner.

Of course, we are delighted to welcome the partners
as always, but our hearts are really warmed when these
hoys in service snatch a moment to come back and see the
campus and their old friends.

All types run through my mind. A day or two ago
here was a boy, absent for several years, delighted to see
that the campus had really not gone to seed. Recently
there was a boy living a thousand miles away, hurrying
home on a brief leave, but stopping for a few hours as he
went. While I write these lines | am waiting for a boy,
wounded and discharged and on his way home, but anx-
ious to see the campus.

We like to believe that these boys have many senti-
mental recollections of happy days, days that are vividly
bright in contrast with these hours of the darkened sky
and darkened future. But we like to believe, too, that
there are certain renewals, perhaps unconscious renewals,
of the great allegiances and the great motivations.

One of my friends, passing through Lexington on a
bus, heard one private soldier on that bus tell another
private soldier that ‘Lexington is where Cornwallis sur-
rendered to Lee, and William and Mary is.”

The soldier’s facts were undoubtedly wrong, but he
was right in a dim conviction that Lexington is the center
of history and the center of culture. Through the cen-
turies now, the ideals of history have been exemplified in
human personality on this campus; and the resources of
culture, representing the best that man has achieved and
the best that man has thought and the best that man has
dreamed, have been available to waves of youth rolling
across these green stretches.

We older ones who live here, and the older ones else-
where who are responsible for the University and who
love it, have a conviction that this kind of an institution
has an important place, an essential place in the future of
our country, if that future is to be worthy. It reassures us
immensely that our younger brothers come back, and
that many more of them are coming back after the war
to fulfill programs of their aspiration. We hope it may
ever be thus.

Fh Ng

President

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Items of Current Campus News

The Fall term at Washington and Lee will go down to
history as a period in which every effort has been made to
carry on the traditions of the school with great reduction in
the student body, faculty and housing facilities, but a heroic
force is “holding the fort” until reinforcements arrive. With
most of the housing and class-room accomodations taken over
by the government for the Army School for Personnel Ser-
vices, now numbering over a thousand men and women in
uniform, the freshmen are housed in the Lambda Chi and
Phi Kappa Psi fraternity houses instead of the dormitories.
Classes are small, but notwithstanding, the general policy is
to continue all freshmen and sophomore courses intact and
to offer junior-senior courses in accordance with the needs of
upper-classmen on the campus each term. The freshmen have
set a high record of assimilation with few infringements of
Freshman Rules; freshman caps are required.

The Glee Club, Forensic Union and International Rela-
tions Club are functioning. A committee was chosen to in-
vestigate the posibilities of a small scale revival of sports at
the University and “Cy” Twombly has inaugurated a program
of intramurals, which includes baseball, football, basketball,
volley ball, ping-pong, handball, swimming, wrestling, golf
and tennis.

The opening set of dances were held on October 6 and 7,
with plenty of girls, plenty of pulchritude, and plenty of mu-
sic furnished by “The Vagabonds,” a good orchestra for such
an affair, who hailed from Lynchburg, Virginia.

* * *

Plans are being formulated by the University Board of
Trustees and the Administration for the Bi-Centennial of
Washington and Lee in 1949. Ki Williams, President of the
Alumni Association was requested to select a group of alumni
to serve as a planning committee to work in connection with
a similar committee from the University Board of Trustees.
The following men have been chosen: Christopher T. Chen-
ery, (09, New York, New York, chairman; Fred W. McWane,
"13, Lynchburg, Virginia; Walter McDonald, °10, Cincinnati,
Ohio; William A. Wright, °13, Richmond, Virginia; and Dr.
Charles Watkins, ‘09, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

* * *

Harry K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Secretary, returned to his
desk in the Alumni Office on September Ist, after two years
in government service with the Office of Censorship. He was
sent first to the School of Censorship in New Orleans and
later was stationed in New York. In January of last year he
was transferred to San Juan, Puerto Rico, where he remained
for twelve months. While in the West Indies Cy renewed
friendships with many Washington and Lee alumni. At the
beginning of this year he went to Washington, D. C., from
whence he resigned on August Ist and, after a month’s va-
cation, returned to Lexington.

* * *

Dr. L. J. Desha, ’06, was recently appointed to the newly-
created three-man Special Board of Examiners in Basic Sci-

ence for Virginia. This Board was created by the 1944 General
Assembly of Virginia to conduct examinations of applicants
for licenses to practice the healing arts in this state. In this
new appointment he joins two other prominent men in the
field of science. The tenure of the Board is five years. It was
set up by the General Assembly in the amendment to the
healing arts statutes to permit the licensing of chiropractors
and naturopaths in Virginia. The purpose was to meet the ob-
jections that the State Medical Examining Board should not
pass on the qualifications of chiropractors and naturopaths.

Dr. M. O. Phillips, professor of commerce, was granted a
leave of absence for another year. He is at present preparing
another textbook dealing with Economic Geography.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee at a recent meeting authorized the pur-
chase and installation of a purification and filter system for
the swimming pool. Dr. R. W. Dickey, professor of physics,
was placed in charge of the installation, which is expected
to be ready within a few weeks. This improvement will in-
sure clean and chemically pure water in the pool at all times.

C. Harold Lauck. laboratory instructor in journalism and
superintendent of the Journalism Laboratory Press, received
recognition through a biographical sketch which appeared in
the September issue of “The Commonwealth,” magazine of
the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce. The sketch ap-
peared in the section entitled, “Virginians in the Public Eye,”
and was prompted by the award for 1944 of the Harry J.
Friedman Medal to him for outstanding contributions to
graphic arts education. The award is made annually by The
New York School of Printing.

oer

The November issue of “The American Printer” also con-
tains an article about Mr. Lauck’s work at the Journalism
Laboratory Press, entitled “The Baskerville Printer.” It was
written by Richard N. McArthur of Atlanta and relates the
story of how Mr. Lauck has won national recognition through
the use of a single type face—Baskerville. Mr. Lauck designed
the cover of that particular issue and the type used is, nat-
urally, Baskerville.

A picture of three students in the foreground of the main
group of Washington and Lee buildings will appear on the
cover of a vocational booklet which R. R. Donnelley and
Sons Company is publishing for the Investment Bankers’
Association of America. The booklet, which will be distrib-
uted to young college men and returning soldiers to point
out careers available in the field of investment banking, will
also contain a short article on the Washington gift to the
University.

[4]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Documents Returned

Priceless documents and manuscripts, including perhaps
original copies of the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution, were stored for thirty months in the University’s
Cyrus Hall McCormick Library as the tides of war changed.
Now with the Nazi armies fighting on the soil of their father-
land, the invaluable treasures have been returned to Wash-
ington.

These documents, together with the Lincoln Cathedral
original of the Magna Carta and many rare books and maps,
were kept in five heretofore secret repositories in the East.
What valuables were sent here the University does not know.
This is the story as it developed at Washington and Lee:

On July 3, 1941, Dr. Luther H. Evans, acting librarian of
Congress, wrote the librarian of Washington and Lee that
within a week his staff would like to investigate the Univer-
sity’s Cyrus Hall McCormick Library as a depository for
certain valuables should the need ever arise. In 1941 the li-
brary had been reconstructed, made thoroughly fireproof, and
handsomely appointed. The University replied that it would
be honored to offer its facilities to the Government, and plans
were made to move the Lee collection and University Ar-
chives from the east wing of the second floor in order to
make space.

In Washington a central committee of members of the
Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institute, the National
Archives, and other federal organizations was making plans
to remove their valuables to places safer from enemy attack
and sabotage than even the deep underground vaults of the
Library of Congress. Washington and Lee was one of these
safer places chosen.

When that enemy attack came on December 7, 1941, at
Pearl Harbor, 5,000 miles from Washington, the Govern-
ment agencies began packing their manuscripts, maps, docu-

 

to Washington

ments, and very valuable books in stout wooden boxes—
enough of them to load 26 freight cars—and by the last week
in December many tons of these were stored at Washington
and Lee. While the University has not yet been informed
exactly what the cases contained, doubtless in some of them
were manuscripts of its first great benefactor, George Wash-
ington. Campus rumor long ago had it that among the docu-
ments was the Magna Charta. Anyhow, with the boxes was
an armed guard on duty twenty-four hours a day.

As quickly as posible four Lexington men were employed
as guards, sent to a school in Washington for training, and
then sworn into office not only by the Government but by
the Town of Lexington. They had special police powers. Di-
rectly they were under the supervision of Richard H. Shoe-
maker, acting University librarian.

For Washington and Lee, engineering as well as space
problems were involved. The architects who designed the li-
brary had to be consulted to learn the weight that any square
foot of floor space might support. Some extremely heavy
boxes were stacked one deep, lighter ones piled three high.
Temperature and humidity had to be carefully checked, and
periodically a representative of the Library of Congress made
an inspection.

Thus it was for thirty months while battles were being
lost and won. Then in August the Allies broke out of their
Normandy beachhead and swept quickly across France. In
September workmen appeared at the Washington and Lee
Library and erected a scaffolding on which ran a little car
from a second floor window to the bed of trailer trucks that
a few days later backed up to it. By this means and with all
publicity forbidden, the nation’s most valuable documents were
loaded into transports escorted by armed guards and returned
to Washington. And thus the course of war changes.

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

      

Lt. William W. Daniel, ’46

Lt. Daniel in No-Man’s Land

A 12th AAF Fighter Base in Italy—‘There I was, nice
and comfortable in a farmhouse, warm and eating good food,
when along comes our goshdarn infantry and I knew I had
to go home.”

- The teller of this war tale was a stocky, bushy-browed, but
very young-looking, pilot of a P-47 thunderbolt that had been
shot down behind enemy lines by flak early last month. It
was 2nd Lieut. William W. Daniel, (W. and L. ’46) lately
Flight Officer Daniel, and he spoke with the soft Georgia
drawl.

“That day I got shot down by a direct hit from somebody's
flak gun was our group’s big day in France and we were
chasing Jerry, as we’d done ever since we landed in Southern
France. I got it in the engine and had to make a belly land-
ing.” Lieut. Daniel related.

Technically, he was behind the German lines, having just
made an attack on a retreating enemy motor convoy, but
actually, he had seen the last Jerry patrol disappear on the
road. He was in what was practically no-man’s-land. Jerry
had pulled out and our troops hadn’t gotten to that point
yet. One way and another, Lieut. Daniel made his way to
that wonderful farmhouse. “Food,” he sighed. “Food. That
was one place where they had it.”

He got back to his airfield, all right, and after rejoining
his thunderbolt group, immediately began flying again in
the effort to cripple the withdrawing 19th German. Army as
it struggled toward Belfort Gap. On that day that Lieut.
Daniel was shot down, his group alone had destroyed more
than 100 motor vehicles and tanks in strafing attacks. Hun-
dreds more were wrecked over the entire period.

Lieut. Daniel is now in Italy. His group is providing close

support divebombing and strafing for the American Fifth
and the British Eighth Armies in the bitter foot-by-foot
struggle to drive the Nazis from the Po River Valley. It was
in Italy that he received his promotion from Flight Officer
to 2nd Lieutenant. Home: 1705 Pelham Road, N.E., Atlanta.
Georgia.

HUGH ASHCRAFT RECEIVES AIR MEDAL

Among the stories coming every day from the battle fronts
is this one regarding Major Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., 40, pilot
of the famous Flying Fortress “Southern Comfort.” Flying a
new, substitute ship (the “Southern Comfort” returned from
a raid on Wilhelmshaven on February 26 with a good part of
its rudder shot away), he turned back just as he reached the
coast of France when the oxygen system in the plane broke
down and his crew narrowly escaped suffocation. Recipient of
the Air Medal, Major Ashcraft is now planning missions in-
stead of flying them.

OGBURN TO HEAD RESEARCH LABORATORIES

Dr. S. C. Ogburn, M.S., '23, has been selected to head up
the new and vast Whitemarsh Research Laboratories of the
Pennsylvania Salt Manufacturing Company, large chemical
manufacturers of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Dr. Ogburn, who
joined the chemical company about two years ago, will con-
tinue to serve as head of its Research and Development De-
partment. He received the key to Whitemarsh from the com-
pany’s president, Leonard T. Hale, in an impressive ceremony
on October 4, 1944, dedicating the newly converted labora-
tories.

The Whitemarsh Laboratories building was the former
residence of the late Edward T. Stotesbury, well-known Phil-
adelphia financier. It is a $3,000,000 fireproof structure, noted
for its beauty of architecture and its gardens fashioned after
the famous gardens of Versailles. No longer used as a resi-
dence, the building was purchased for a nominal price and
cleverly converted into chemical research laboratories with-
out marring the beauty of the building or gardens.

Dr. Ogburn served as Instructor in Chemistry at Wash-
ington and Lee 1921-1923; Assistant Professor of Chemistry
1923-1926. His Master of Science in Chemistry in 1923 was
the first ever conferred at Washington and Lee.

His home is at 618 Woodleave Road, Bryn Mawr, Penn.

“RANGER MOSBY”

Virgil Carrington Jones, ’30, is the author of “Ranger Mos-
by,” recently published by the University of North Carolina
Press. In a review of this book by Dr. Douglas S. Freeman,
in the Richmond Times Dispatch, Dr. Freeman says: “To the
large literature on ‘Mosby's Men,’ this exciting and admirably
written book by a distinguished former member of the staff
of The Richmond Times Dispatch has been added. It comes
at a time of large interest in the type of fighting that brought
renown to Mosby, and it should have warm welcome and
large circulation. Through its pages, perhaps, some new read-
ers will become students of Confederate history, a subject
which once taken up will never be laid down again.”

APPRECIATION OF DEAN MORELAND
Reading the letters sent in by the class agents during the
past few months, one of the outstanding features has been
the volume of expressions of appreciation and affection for
Dean William H. Moreland.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Association Notes
LYNCHBURG

Washington and Lee alumni of Lynchburg met October
13, 1944, at the Oakwood Country Club. State Senator Mosby
G. Perrow, Jr., was elected president of the chapter to succeed
C. Lynch Christian. Other officers chosen were Powell Glass,
vice-president, and Carroll Wiltshire, secretary-treasurer.

Dan Justice, former Washington and Lee University and
EK. C. Glass High School football star who was killed in
action while fighting with the U. S. Marine Corps in the
Pacific theater, will be honored with a memorial by the
chapter.

WASHINGTON

Washington and Lee Alumni of Washington, D. C., held
an enthusiastic informal smoker meeting at the Touchdown
Club on Monday evening, November 20, W. O. Burtner, °17,
President, presiding, with forty-six alumni present.

Harry K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Secretary, gave an informal
talk on present and future University and Alumni affairs, es-
pecially pointing out the University’s program for returning
veterans.

A very interesting movie was shown of Washington and
Lee under war conditions, depicting members of the School
for Personnel Services on the campus.

The following officers were elected for the coming year:
Lt. (j.g.) Frank T. Parker, ’29, President; Capt. Melville B.
Cox, °31, Vice-President; Gilbert Gardner, °40, Secretary-
Treasurer. Paul Brown, 41, and the retiring President, W. O.
Burtner, ‘17, were elected members of the Executive Com-
nuttee.

APPALACHIAN

About fifteen members of the Appalachian Chapter gath-
ered at dinner on Thursday, “November 23, in the General
Shelby Hotel at Bristol with Dr. Gaines. George W. Sum-
merson, Jr., President of the Chapter, presided. Dr. Gaines
made an informal talk and threw the meeting open for ques-
tions which were numerous and interesting. Inclement weath-
er prevented the attendance of many alumni from neighbor-
ing communities who had expected to be present. At a bond
rally that followed for Southwest Virginia and East Tennes-
see, Dr. Gaines was introduced by James M. Barker, Jr., ’11.

THREE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE MEN HONORED

Three Washington and Lee men who are chamber of com-
merce executives have shared honors awarded by the National
Institute of Commercial Organization Executives. The Vir-
ginia State Chamber of Commerce and the Birmingham
Chamber of Commerce, which they represent, received the two
1944 John N. Van der Vries memorial certificates in recog-
nition of the year’s most significant accomplishments of all
chambers of commerce in the United States.

The award to Virginia was based on a study of education
made by Dr. Huston St. Clair, ’22, of Tazewell, immediate
past president of the organization. Verbon E. Kemp, °18-'19
and ’26-'27, is secretary of the Virginia chamber. The Bir-
mingham award was made in recognition of J. Frank Rush-
ton’s, ’23, “Birmingham Plan,” whereby chief executives in-
terview returning service men and aid them in finding jobs.

Dr. St. Clair received an A.B. degree at Washington and
Lee and an M.D. degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
He is president of the Jewel Ridge Coal Company.

Mr. Kemp has edited The Alumni Magazine and served

as an agent for the University in endowment campaigns. He
was city manager of Charlottesville.

A native of Birmingham, Mr, Rushton is president of the
Birmingham chamber and vice-president of the National As-
sociation of Ice Industries.

THREE WILSON BROTHERS

Three Wilson brothers, sons of George White (Larry)
Wilson, °10, of Greensboro, North Carolina, are in various
branches of the armed services:

Larry, Jr., °37, is a lst Lt. with the AAF, served a long
hard stretch on Guadalcanal and is now in New Guinea. He
saw Dr. Reid White, '19, in New Guinea and Pete Grabill, ’39,
in Guadalcanal;

Fill, °37, has been doing special research for the B-29
groups and has been located in Kansas, Texas, and now Day-
ton, Ohio. He was married in October, 1943;

Ben, °39, went into the Air Corps in 1942; made seven
moves in seven months, the seventh move was “across.” He
went into Africa with the invasion and his outfit was the
first fighter squadron in action in Africa. He is now in Italy.

The Army’s No.1 Basic Soldier

....as for me, I’m a Pvt. and expect to be one for the
whole duration—my Army career has been a series of em-
bryologies from the word go—First they had me at Fort
McArthur in California, where, because of my activities in
the motion picture industry before the war, they decided to
hold on to me until I was assigned to an M.P. or Motion
Picture Unit of the Signal Corps—they sent my papers to
Washington and they came back marked M.P. all right—and
I was promptly shipped to the Military Police Combat Divi-
sion for an Infantry Basic Training that took twenty pounds
off me—while there, a Sgt. in the Classification office looked
at my 20—or record card—and said, ‘Jeez, have you been
misassigned!’—so I took the basic and despite a number of
requests from the above mentioned Photographic Center, I
eventually was assigned to the Signal Corps all right—but to
their Basic Training Center, Camp Crowder, Missouri—When
I arrived at this hell-hole, a bleary-eyed Sgt. glowered at me,
read my record, looked up and asked, ‘You ever climbed a
telephone pole?’ I had to admit I hadn’t. ‘Take the basic,’ he
said. ‘But I’ve just finished an Infantry Combat Basic Train-
ing—l7 weeks,’ I protested. ‘You climbed a pole?’ he re-
peated. I shook my head. ‘Take the basic,’ he said—so, for
another 6 weeks I went through the Basic Regulations start-
ing with Right Face, Left Face and ending up with me on a
Pole—a spectacle never to be regarded with inappropriate
levity. After that stage I finally arrived here, but only after
an interview with a Major—who said at the end of it, ‘Jones,
there’s something else I was supposed to do about you—but
I've forgotten what it was—let’s not worry about it, in a few
days everything will be all right. ‘I’m going back to New
York.’ Three days after he arrived in the big city I got a
letter stating, ‘Dear Jones, the thing I forgot to do about you
was bring you back here with me—but don’t let that worry
you—in another three weeks or so you'll be up here with us.’
He was right too. After twenty-six weeks as the most thor-
oughly trained Basic Soldier in the Army I wound up here
where I should have been sent in the first place—that I ever
got here at all, is, I assure you, a miracle and a great com-
pliment to the efficiency of the U.S. Army. I’m extremely
gateful—and that’s no kidding.” :

 

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

1879
Dr. Edward Randall, Sr., one of Texas’ most distinguished
physicians, died in August, ’44, at his home in Galveston,
Texas.
1880

Walter Forrester, died May 22, 1944, at the home of
Dr. and Mrs. L. J. Desha in Lexington, Virginia.

1884

Dr. James C. Ballagh, died September 28, 1944. His home
was in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

1889
Fielding Lewis Poindexter, died November 4, 1944.

1894

Judge James U. Goode, of the Corporation Court of Nor-
folk, Virginia, died November 25, 1944.

1895
Edward A. Brannon, died April 23, 1942. His home was in
Weston, West Virginia.

Benjamin Brooks Willingham, died September 20, 1944,
at his home in Macon, Georgia.

1896
Robert A. Baker, died in September, 1944.

1897

Joseph Cromwell Ford, died January 12, 1944. His home
was in Charles Town, West Virginia.

1899
John Wanroy Garrow, died October 28, 1944.

1900

Samuel W. Frierson, died October 21, 1944, after a long
illness. His home was in Florence, Alabama.

1904
Carroll Lee Spitler, died April 16, 1944, at his home in
Luray, Virginia.
1906
William Walter Cave, died at his home in Pulaski, Vir-
ginia, November 8, 1944.
1911
James Patton Alexander, died August 23, 1944, at his home
in Fairfield, Virginia.
1919
Frank C. Stipes, died September 23, 1944, in Flint, Mich-
igan.
1929

Samuel W. Lancaster, died in Dallas, Texas, October 1,
1944,

Births

1930

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Keil are the parents of a son,
David Leonard, born on October 10, 1944.

1937

Major and Mrs. Harold Calvin Magoon of Kenmore, New
York, are the parents of a daughter, Eugenia Victoria (Vicki)
born August 15, 1944.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Baker Atwood of Pine Bluff, Arkan-
sas, are the parents of a son born August 13, 1944.

1936

Born in Jackson Memorial Hospital, Lexington, Virginia,
October 16, Robert E. Holland, III, son of Mrs. Robert E.
Holland, Jr., and the late Lt. Robert E. Holland of the U. S.
Naval Air Force.

LETTERS TO CLASS AGENTS

An alumnus gives this thought as to letters to Class
Agents. We quote: “I note that it is stated in the printed
letter ‘To every Alumnus’ that the primary object of the
Class Agent Plan is to create a closer bond between every
alumnus, the University and his classmates. The first several
years, when I complied with the requests for Class Letters,
giving chiefly news items about myself and family, I felt that
[ indulged in an annual spree of egotism, but as the years
have passed and I find myself eagerly scanning every issue
of The Alumni Magazine for items about the boys I knew at
W. and L., I feel differently about this method of contact.
Being so sincerely interested in knowing how life has treated
my associates of college days, I feel that conversely there
may be some who may be interested in some of the following.”

KI WILLIAMS DISCOVERS SECRET REPOSITORY

Alumni President Ki Williams learned that the library
was a secret repository for priceless Government documents
only when he looked into the muzzle of a pistol. He and Mayor
J. W. Milner of Gulfport, Mississippi, were wandering about
the library, and when they opened the door to a familiar
room they were met by a guard who levelled a gun at them.
Mr. Williams said, “Excuse us. We're just alumni looking
around,” while they backed out.

GOLFERS TAKE LESSONS

Among Washingtonand Lee golfers who attended a class
taught in Doremus Gymnasium by Lt. Ben Hogan when he
Was a student in the School for Personnel Services here in
October, were Cy Young, Cy Twombly and E. S. Mattingly.
When Lt. Hogan asked Cy Twombly to step out from a
group of fifty students so that he could show him how to
stop shanking his club, Cy was as embarrassed as any school
boy.

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of November 15, 1944

Norte: This list of 81 alumni in service comprises the
tenth published addition to the list of Washington and
[.ee men in service, published in the May, 1942, Magazine.
Washington and Lee now has 2,974 alumni listed in the
armed forces.

The Alumni Office is vitally interested in pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress from which mail will be forwarded, special activi-
ties, type of service or training, etc.

It is our policy to keep as close a connection as possi-
ble with our alumni in this time of stress, and any in-
formation concerning alumni in service will be greatly
appreciated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. These symbols and their meaning are
as follows: A, Army of the United States; AAF, Army
Air Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air
Corps; MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; AFS,
American Field Service; MMS, United States Merchant
Marine Service. An asterisk (*) following the above
symbols indicates a commissioned officer.

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

PATI CT EIA; SIR ICTURE. Gs 0 oils (Ai cine tccecothno ch poueah Maedche esi Ascdonciauuae A
Axtell Robeat Stocktetan] 6-967. occ taiccies co acivbieobiah actestnscoetdeed A
Basi.) San. oN RINGER, ene ee ures io co kibitvcscrieeaut he A
Bares, We eemers CIE Gi iiiskan cries acnemninaden cis bipsocvace tapas, ste N
oe eT WT ai ae Ps Fie IE ane gs oe Scena edcloscdcan eateckacguothe N
Bawer,,.F remerec ue Vv aie 8 goes sii onndgccctntetaghicchctrneouc aioe N*
FRR A SRORE Firs OO aces -ndcg citettlen era tdltes on cide diesrithy cue cantdeaeoll A
PDS TAIS TABLE Y | Digs? 2 occ ccaksthtactttee arcs chsiecttineeoas bs ikilescemestes abel A
SSC TET, FERS E CEI, | Oba ices bun sea iecomtbncs. ds teceveetasnawer seliaabebcs A*
Bierer, FORO en SF sb assets ie NB Gieaseess cae hae rickets A*
ROOST IE FASTA Pe. 2ibins ccd usta shescndaseeccas Wacaigiekwtdede meal AAF*
Browder, Byron Critchell, eins kev cendickachve ieosbika pain tein A*
Gamle,. Patil: Bayne. AZo crits csBiesscscesk cacttagaecnnetaarialien AFS**
Cibeks: Siry PRUE AGiscstcedhpconscathns asbisiadhhis ccastvgutsinptasauceaeed AAF
COP IEEY, VV AsieMaS WOME ES | Bc crstlenchcatctactedeh, cdfccescccédecancgavbodbsncegeee N*
Catetriaits Fr tiaie. Pr itl se cticcecvtccubitbs casics nas tacsdoieeccaeticp eth cleecadbescha A*
VO Re LATO 1g ann taih tits gsc odecechcstncecounne tgchadeh goasebaniaien A
Cormek:-rormeat. Billige. Wg iss as cocestnsccdeccecactasiactcervsdSocsteaateal CG
Coe, MR OTVE Ie Be wert 5S ease siielcaesceicis schscdac badecosnecdasvberaulstaned A*
Davidson, Johit Kinnens FOO he vicgicsthntisbidteqetencs tessietsicapcduightes A
PROT OUR. Sb Cak.  JECOIIC NT sO ccatsickck thy citibscucdecnntncsigncesscocees tee MC*
REED = SOE TR EOROTE BD =e hans st Ah ocisehasds ss tvepoeapeoasesonsus eaaenabucsh A*
CTE SOO Pre AO aio an stan hocvincetclonintcoeabataatoneccsiveossceaik A
Rare. ASAT UE. Bg. 0 ae aed esWiissustaldobeiats etbeataveetaccineddacsi at A

 

* Indicates commissioned officer.
** Killed in training or combat.
*** Officially missing in action.

Name and Class Branch of Service

FSM WU SARNIA RENE Gs” OAs coccicna rc deceadlves Seating gts tue ctace = cacvaa db anton AAF*
Prank) ‘Julign Anerew: Asi. hic i, scorebane ikenicasanoen AAF
Pradier,- Frank. Mimtsreds "SB sisi siicsisciiideccaccavesgstsdangcteburt-b doe NAC*
CU) RITIOS i le ne i  sadtaetintealeleaameecpieies proto ileeshil A
Gottscehall “Anurew Wala, lt (47st cvaselinsecdeetesoete N
FARGOS, SFT DR NOUN FES Faicicsscccncadbdcttiasscicccnpthbvensassedihn N
pemer. Wilbtr Bibrivansthy, "4D .5...sges octet AG ccdeanceotonsotat socashunsenoos N
Rameiamom, | VW ti atie SAO G7 5,655 sock, <ckczsnuvccccceeteharieatndbvasee-Cedevens A
FA ORG, “EIA VIE. = VE CRLCY «Sion bdcanobtsingice docsdpeckideeoohncnghinanchas-sconita AAF*
Picker Charlea cs roy: 4555 cisiks i ctactncassdnudigenbsatdecaedl AAF**
Hopson, Ve aie HG A733. rics cvastacseba cuits hac solatndeaswsobaed A
Pindrian, eter, Tw 0! BBS. ssh coun ce iidtietacnscaaAdecbudtiaaachasahasel AAF*
SIMIC OCBOR, . IRODECET Set OGle BO cscindcactvancusndmniticiemiaiinticuia ts N*
ESD Yet WV GIAIN - DOCU IRDIE,. STO vcicdhnaseantvestehs Aietrcuetescininenie Geni A*
Johtiston, > Fonn< Wallard "2G .ca iki céssotane dentine svadbe seb ceonentet AAF*
Kimball” Roger: Omer. 94508 is so ikss, odekccdtbincaseNienthsesencedited AAF
BEE es FOTOS Gh Be, iss vackesrsdnnastiatssbubetaidtianscsabeemetionoks AAF
LiGenrood. Ropers Glens -°S5.Giacecsatesdoresea cuenta CG*
Lowy: Georme “WOGATOW,  SS7ccieiccssacsstisciacckerenshtbaoeiasdtiioocaact MC
MacHonald, Marion Wade, ?S2 iia pcedicssdoethscnaurese chomstes MMS*
MacGimshen:: Dotald Stuarts “Gi ic5.c. cctgessstgstl dacatsstcesccdcousctcnactl A
MeERy, A sOGfwe E.G Wound chaccisiss cis damdeoee acd id oaden tne Heddadannaes N
Mame Ae A eh |S 4Gaa, 2 oka isscdinecbbiocscacdtaeedihe le tdevenb witece N
Matias: TAME S TE OR OA kiiccccckiscicxdans ethic taede casted snewawi A
PARC a VY SL Peart VN Bien zek ccesee save tianigh das ssio Gliacet poles. N*
Beatle Fh eriry. Pamen TA siseesiscckincasiesdeckdepeeinua ceases dnhexostacescusbdpiad A
DERMOT SEALE Y- Udy. 7 Dehn dden vdasek Wicateccndahaae Kinsslosiascacca adele ouibbvaed A
DETER, ATTIC ROI Ets JT. 9h Osi acctinsibastonch covcpapasccsscdncugbdemonebean A*
DE OSCR Y TREC: CUO kn ask, his ccnhctneonaddaev cbs oh aibiacinthaene A*
aCe. Se” ESPR OO (OAs: crcdg- oo cdinckéoleamsnane bess cabiadglabeieieeel A
PICTON be: FARO «VERE ON, ~ Aiheiasiengshottspcdyecapaaore Atel edssobascchanes N*
PATER, VV TERED Td CERISE BF oo cad ccedens bovine ccdbdaweudinceee cubs bocce cdanena N
Plénsatite, FLBOR Om CUS ET indsiccicacck skh Sopp dadatencons xe. ested Waa N
PO. Vu ates arte A oo iss. dos ek cs pa tanectin eles eeecwwhns wsstbalccseces A
PIGIE DOUG, 95,0. Bias natettade nabidnnss Wassichtcaeetoce Mates Bee hid vccckcssantiodne A
ROM, AMEN ACNE Me <0 Soo Ga ndocnna dunes bed egde i aipupbaiinwdcotlicm AAF*
ICH APERO Sav IGN. SePUTICIS,  Sescovdl.vcsdaroniacek choievin tie nvclusiccsbee’ N
ERIC HETUI,  SOURET  SIGLEIIGR DIAS <i -o0en sdccdsesitnanoccckinesotnadeancsersch A
Pee. -< BRATS SOMONE TE NI bn ctesc acadceuncendeoveetonkoctavan voudeditiocibtacet N*
REIS, “VV LEIASE “2 DOTMUDE, 4 Aiicecscccecccccdeivbccsbite, cclecnceia AAF
SHRURERIE, NINE, RIOCHEL Dore: cass cchvddtaseoadensesdisenodcoceh eee AAF*
OLGA FFROO tag:  Messbasce sink coves sticciabteaphdesoccctasidegicacicatee AGG A*
epee er, Seem SUS i re ees Fa te Ae ee +e
Branch of Service Unknown
Seen CHAT IOD MMOGs AG a ivnecnscideadiccitsypoicvesecdsaovisswcdeoniop ean A
Sees BOM Dae Pi ss I 0.555pcicncepatadecdaduvgapecsodansdasiplieonsteeoed N
SONNE DD, |<) A SERRANO te MURINE. ARP: 1 on. 20 ccuanySsdecei cceoiuy ob oxclnaiocbanscscvginblad A
eer EN ods on oso pice tins Vince dehiesesvhntnedecasbencenathcibebabesoeeee A
RCN Eeeane- OSE POMIMME ROFL)... , -siscnitesshogsowtasoaseedvobapematepadeooes N
FTE OONNEL Re ONCOL oF isco Maincnokasterscokashaiviaeasauniceschoticaiieiatensieah A
eI, 5 2) OBC TRTE eg a N sicccisuovegneeccccnucttcuocaghbclsibosdccotAdeusal A*
OE FRI Oe Ba ii BicvaicacckctdnadGikenabui haidtedduoivcho atin banmal A
Weather Alexander: Harmitltomns 44 iiiini cc ccdessciaveccedsccelekivcancaticceiss A
Ware eta BE ONTOS FA GNIS ori ivcciecsccschetnds ncdbdbewieesstacce pie’ AAF
WV UOC TC LC Fa issn lass pebeasssiecksdoesccvanwasusbghonteettattelouss N
Werenees ma er. Littlepawe, 2°47 ciiccscedsiecYosstsceiarieelokets etic deat N
VAI ROUEN ; ROMER OE <b Loos sins pks ccdecaphocsedtncoctosccrebestdabdabctua A*
WE OCF TOTS SetiCEP BOR IT ois avs occadbectnesdendacdaeeecbiond AAF*

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington's Giit Yields $400,000

Income from the first large gift of securities to a college
in the United States, made in 1796 to Washington and Lee
University, will have reached a total of $400,000 at the end
of this year, President Francis P. Gaines says. He refers not
only to the largest gift of George Washington to education,
but to his only existing one.

As Dr. Gaines explains to incoming freshmen, the prin-
cipal has been returned eight-fold as dividends to the Uni-
versity, and Washington contributes $3 yearly toward the
education of each student in the institution to which he gave
his name.

The securities were one hundred shares of stock in the
James River Navigation Company, chartered by Virginia in
1784 to fulfill a dream of Washington: the linking of the
Atlantic with the Ohio River by a navigable waterway. In
1785 Virginia gave these securities to General Washington as
a reward for his services to his state and country, to be used
for his personal benefit. Up to 1928, when the State of Vir-
ginia redeemed for cash the certificates of indebtedness which
it had issued in 1892 in exchange for the stock, Washington
and Lee had received about $350,000 in dividends and interest
from the Washington gift.

When the state commuted the Washington gift in 1928,
the University put the principal received into the General
Endowment Fund where, along with other moneys, it has
been invested in varied securities. Thus the historical identity
of the donation has been lost although it is still earning divi-
dends.

Washington refused the gift for his personal benefit but
agreed to accept it provided the Legislature would let him turn
it over to some object of public nature. The state consented
to this, but because the James River company was spending
its capital in building locks and canals and was receiving no
revenue, Washington preferred to hold the stock until such a
time as the company might be in a position to begin to show
profits. That day came, so Washington thought, in 1796.

Having spent most of the preceding years at the seat of
the government in Philadelphia and, therefore, not being too
familiar with Virginia institutions, Washington requested the
Legislature to designate the recipient of the gift. That it re-
fused to do, but it did suggest a seminary of learning in the
“upper country.” Upon hearing of this, General Andrew
Moore of Rockbridge and General Francis Preston of Wash-
ington County, who were then representatives in Congress
from Western Virginia, directed the attention of Washing-
ton to Liberty Hall Academy, as the University was then
known, as a suitable object of his donation. General Moore
also wrote to the Rev. William Graham, the rector, suggest-
ing that the academy should apply to Washington for the
gift. With the academy in jeopardy for want of funds, the
board of trustees and Mr. Graham happily accepted the sug-
gestion and prepared an address, together with a map of upper
Virginia, which was forwarded to Washington. This may be
apocryphal, but it is said that General Light Horse Harry
Lee, father of Robert E. Lee and a friend of Mr. Graham
when they were both students at Princeton, helped to per-
suade Washington to make his donation to Liberty Hall.

Whatever else may have been the reason for making Lib-
erty Hall the recipient, Washington chose Lexington, rather
than Staunton or Fincastle which he also considered, because
a seminary already had been established there while nothing
had been done at either of the other places. He said he pre-
ferred to aid those who had already aided themselves. In his
will he reaffirmed the benefaction.

It was not until March, 1802, that the James River com-
pany yielded its first dividend, 3 per cent on the capital,
which gave the academy $600, ‘‘a sum sufficient to pay the most
pressing of its debts and to purchase $100 worth of philosoph-
ical apparatus.”

“The next June a second dividend of $6000, and in January,
1803, a third of $1200, delivered the institution from debt and
left a surplus of $500 for the purchase of books and equip-
ment,” an early rector has recorded.

An act of the General Assembly in 1819 provided that if
the James River company complied with certain conditions
set forth in the act, the state would guarantee an annual
dividend of 12 per cent for twelve years from January 1, 1820,
and at the expiration of that term, 15 per cent forever after-
ward. In 1892 this stock was increased in par value from
$20,000 to $50,000 and converted by the State of Virginia into
certificates of indebtedness bearing 6 per cent interest instead
of the 15 per cent paid by the original securities. This still
vielded the University $3,000 annually.

In 1928 the Legislature acted to retire all such certificates
of indebtedness paying 6 per cent interest. (It could do this
by borrowing at 4 per cent, and thus save $50,000 annually
on the outstanding certificates.) The certificate of 1892 was
presumed to be redeemable at the pleasure of the State. Be-
cause Washington and Lee was the only institution then re-
ceiving benefits from any of Washington’s gifts to learning,
the University asked that the Washington donation be ex-
empted from this conversion in order to perpetuate the his-
torical identity of it. The Legislature rejected this request as
being incompatible with the Byrd reorganization program, and
the University, being unable to obtain on sentimental grounds
what it was not disposed to demand on legal grounds, ac-
cepted the $50,000 principal in cash. This money was placed
in the General Endowment Fund and is reinvested.

The total of $350,000 in dividends and interest received
from the James River company stock while it had an identity
is arrived at thus. From 1802 to 1820 it is recorded that it paid
from 6 to 18 per cent, although about 1812 it omitted pay-
ment for one or more years. If it had paid an average of 12
per cent for every year in this period, the earnings would have
been $43,200; consequently this figure is likely a bit too high.
From 1820 to 1832, when the stock regularly paid 12 per cent,
it earned $28,800. From 1832 to 1928 it paid 15 per cent regu-
larly except for a period of three to ten years during and
after the War of Secession when payments were omitted,
earning $279,000 or slightly less. Since 1928, at an estimated
dividend rate of 6 per cent, it has earned $51,000. This gives a
total of $402,000 which likely is from $3,000 to $20,000 more
than has actually been received from Washington’s largest
and only existing gift to education.

[10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1885

1893

 

Wiliam E. Hamilton was
born sixteen miles from
Shreveport, Louisiana, and
has lived all his life in that
city and has been a leading
citizen for many years. He
has watched Shreveport
grow from a dirty river
town into a city of well over
100,000, and has taken an
active part in this growth.
Hamilton Terrace Junior

 

Class notes in the five issues of THE ALUMNI MAG-
AZINE, beginning with October each year, are com-
piled from the letters received by the Class Agents dur-
ing the previous spring and summer. In this issue we
are using as many notes as possible about alumni serving
with the armed forces, feeling that much of this in-
formation will soon be out of date. Home addresses
are given in most cases with the hope that letters
will be written to them and forwarded promptly.

what busier than usual. Our
normal University regula-
tions would have retired me
three years ago, but loss of
personnel in my department
has made it necessary for the
University to keep me on the
job. Fortunately my health
remains good and I am not
conscious of senile disabil-
ity. Ran Shields has been
with me since soon after his

 

 

High School was named for

him recently as a token of appreciation and affection. He was
a student at Washington and Lee from 1883 to 1885. Home:
827 King’s Highway, Shreveport, Louisiana.

1888

Carlisle H. Gilkeson of Fairfield, Virginia, is one of
Washington and Lee’s most faithful alumni. He has been
teaching school in Fairfield for many years.

Frank B. Crawford lives at 20 North Washington Street,
Winchester, Virginia.

1892

Dr. E. L. Green, Class Agent for 1892, is head of the
Department of Ancient Languages at the University of South
Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina.

Rees Turpin continues to live an active professional life
and is kept busier than in some ways he wants to be, but
even after a particularly wearying stretch he cannot con-
template ease and inactivity with any degree of satisfaction.
He is a member of the law firm of Turpin, Behrendt &
Searing, New York Life Building, Kansas City, Missouri.

William C. Morton was re-elected Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Berkeley County in the general election on Novem-
ber 7, 1944. His home is in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1893 =a
B. A. Judd, Class Agent for 1893, is still ap /
practicing law at 25 Broad Street, New York ‘
City. He is very hospitable to all Washington fy,
and Lee people visiting in New York. a A
George C. Martin lives at Keo, Arkansas. re ie
He heartily approves of the Class Agent Plan es
and sends his regards to all of his classmates. [a |
Yo
Dr. James B. Bullitt is still teaching in the —

Medical Department, University of North Car- =

. . é . te Uy) ), 4 Vib,
olina. He writes: “Instead of an easy, comfort- FAS ABT

able, idle old age, mine seems to be comforta-

(Na) = ec ,
ble enough, but not idle. It is interesting be- ¥

. . . w1% Wy Ua ’
cause it continues my activities of the past mall ee
forty years, and because of the war it is some- wt

     
      

= i rT: |

return from China more than
a year ago. He is working his head off and doesn’t seem to
realize that he is also one of the ancients.” Note: Since the
above was written in April, Ran Shields has accepted a posi-
tion in the Medical School at the University of Tennessee in
Memphis.

Dudley D. Pendleton is a Sales Engineer, with offices in
the Bessemer Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. His oldest
son, Dudley D., Jr., is married and has two children. He is
with the R.C.A. Corporation in Camden, New Jersey, and his
second son, James is now a Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps.

Harrington Waddell resigned his position as Principal of
the Lexington High School last year, but is still acting as
clerk of the Lexington School Board. His sons are both in
the service, the younger, Dr. William Edgar Waddell, has
been overseas with the University of Virginia Hospital unit
for two years and a half.

1894

John M. Graham, Class Agent for 1894, is President of
the National City Bank of Rome, Rome, Georgia. He has a
great love for Washington and Lee. His father was at Wash-
ington College under General Lee, his son John Meredith,
Jr., graduated from the Law School in 1935, and he has already
entered a grandson, the fourth of the name John Meredith
Graham, in the class of 1958.

James Veech is living with his daughter
and her husband at 551 Barbary Lane, Louis-
ville, Kentucky. He was badly paralyzed seven
years ago and spends much of his time in bed,
although he enjoys an occasional ride in an
automobile, reading and talking to his friends.
His main delight in life is hearing from Wash-
ton and Lee. He would like to hear from
his classmates.

Leslie M. Crouch is a member of the law
firm of Crouch and Crouch of Harrisonville,
Missouri, having practiced there continuously
since June, 1895. His only son is his law
partner. He says: “It has been approximately
ae fifty years since I enjoyed the associations of
Bee AB Ml the fine fellows in this class but the memory,
particularly of many events that took place,

OTe Mb tes
Be is still fresh.”

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Edmund P. Coles remembers his class agent as a fellow
student, a fellow Kappa Alpha, and a most talented de-
claimer. In April 1944 he retired from active service with the
General Electric Company, with whom he had worked ever
since leaving college. He continues to reside at 117 Queens
Road, Charlotte, North Carolina, where he has represented
the General Electric Company since 1908.

1895

John Palmer Walker, Class Agent for 1895, General Land
Office, Boise, Idaho.

Dr. R. L. Simpson has had a long career as a teacher and
practitioner of dental surgery in Richmond, Virginia. He
began teaching dentistry in 1905 at the University College of
Medicine, and was Dean of the Dental School there from
1910 to 1913 and dean of the School of Dentistry of the
Medical College of Virginia from 1913 to 1915. His services
as a teacher of dental subjects have been continuous from
1905 to the present date; he now being Emeritus Professor
of Clinical Dental Practice at the Medical College of Virginia.

William McChesney Martin is a member of the law firm
ot Martin, Peper and Martin, St. Louis, Missouri. His older
son Bill, was president of the New York Stock Exchange and
resigned to join the Army. He is now a Colonel; the younger,
Malcolm, is a First Lieutenant Headquarters Transportation
Corps, overseas. Mr. Martin is a member of the University
Board of Trustees.

1896

William F. Houck writes that he is proud of the progress
of the University and enjoys receiving the printed material
sent to the alumni. He has been in poor health for some years.
His home is in Russellville, Alabama.

V. E. Funkhouser is President of Funkhouser Equipment
Company, equipment, machinery, supplies, 2424 Jefferson
Street, Kansas City, Missouri. He is a native Lexingtonian
but left here 44 years ago; lived in the Orient five and a half
years and then returned to the United States, finally went into
business in Kansas City.

1897

William J. Lindenberger, Class Agent for 1897 is a Food
Products Broker, at 16 California Street, San Francisco,
California.

Rev. Harry Bertram Lewis, D.D., after practicing law
for seven years, entered the Ministry of the Methodist Epis-
copal Church. He served as Minister in various churches in
Ohio, and is now retired. He and his wife celebrated their
50th wedding anniversary on June 14, 1944. His address is
208 Winthrop Avenue, Columbus 2, Ohio.

Thomas H. Webb has been with the Texas State Highway
Department, Austin, Texas, since September 16, 1919, and
has been Assistant State Highway Engineer since February
1, 1927. He is married and has one daughter fourteen years
of age. He says he remembers, with no little satisfaction,
that he played center on perhaps the last football team that
won from V.M.I.—that was in the fall of ’96.

1898

Dr. Ran T. Shields, returned missionary from China who
since January, 1943, has been associated with the medical

school of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
North Carolina, has accepted a position as assistant professor
of pathology at the Medical School of the University of Ten-
nessee in Memphis.

Robert W. Mayo has his law offices in the Kirby Building,
Dallas, Texas. He writes: “It might be of interest to Wash-
ington and Lee, which has many alumni in Texas, to know
that Texas is furnishing a larger number of men in the service
proportioned to the population than any other state. One little
town of 1,000 population, Calvert, Texas, has three Rear
Admirals in the Navy, one Lieut. Colonel in the Field Ar-
tillery, two Majors in the Army Air Corps and 160 service
men of various grades. In number this is typical of all of
Texas, but of course the number of high-ranking officers is
exceptional. Admiral Nimitz and General Eisenhower are
both Texans, although Eisenhower came to the army from
Kansas, I believe.”

Richard W. Flournoy is still in the State Department with
plenty of work to do as Assistant to the Legal Adviser.
Among contributions he has made to the country are (1)
the reform of the immigration laws (having prospective immi-
grants examined abroad by consuls instead of allowing them
to be dumped on our ports without any previous examination),
and (2), the revision and codification of the nationality laws.
He originated both of these measures and had a considerable
part in carrying them through. He lives at 111 West Leland
Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

1899

Admiral C. P. Snyder says: “I am glad to keep up my
contact with the old University which honored me a year
ago last spring by the award of an LL.D. degree. I visited
the University at that time, accompanied by my wife and my
Naval Aide, and had the charming experience of living with
the President, Dr. Gaines, and his lovely family for about
two days. It was a heart-warming experience to see the old
place again, although I hardly knew it, except for some of
the old outstanding architecture which fortunately has not
only been retained, but rehabilitated.” Admiral Snyder reached
the retiring age on the first of August 1943, and was placed
on the the retired list with the rank of full Admiral. He has
been retained in the assignment which he held before retire-
ment, namely, Naval Inspector General.

Col. Arthur M. Shipp, U. S. Army Retired, is living in
Lexington, his home-town. He says: “Washington and Lee is
doing splendid work with its Army Special Service School.
I know Col. Quarterman, its commandant, and am sure he is
making a success of this training as I hear him highly com-
mended from all sides. My old friend, David M. Barclay has
recently visited here for two weeks and we spent many happy
hours visiting old haunts and reminiscing.”

W. E. Davis is in the coal business in Eastern Kentucky
and he has been kept pretty close by its exacting problems,
and only at long intervals has he been able to get back to
Lexington. His wife, who was Miss Bruce Houston of Lex-
ington, died in September 1943. Two of his sons are in the
service, one a Major in the Air Forces and the other a Lieut.
Colonel (a surgeon) in the Air Forces.

Rev. James A. McClure, Minister of the First Presbyterian
Church, St. Petersburg, Florida, writes that his assistant has
taken a pastorate; his Director of Religious Education has
gone to Australia with the Red Cross; his Secretary is

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

threatening to get married, and he is about to die of old age.
His weekly quota is about six funerals, and three weddings
besides his regular chores. He has four sons in the service,
John, B.A. ’28, a Captain at Bolling Field Hospital, Wash-
ington, D. C.; Jim, A.B. ’32, LL.B. ’37, is on a ship up around
Greenland; Tom, B.S. ’40, Lt. (j.g.) on a ship in the Mediter-
ranean. The youngest son, Ned, who graduated at the Uni-
versity of Florida is a 2nd Lieut. in the Marines.

H. St. G. T. Carmichael is a frequent visitor to the campus
in connection with his duties as a member of the University
Board of Trustees. He is still president of the Kentucky Rock
and Asphalt Company, Kyrock, Kentucky. His son Stan, ’45,
has been in the Air Corps for many months. He is specializing
in Celestial Navigation. Johnny, fifteen years old, expects to
finish high school next year and enter the Class of ’50 at
Washington and Lee.

1900

Robrt A. Watson is a member of the law firm of Watson
& Taylor, Charlottesville, Virginia. His son volunteered at the
beginning of the war, was commissioned a Second Lieutenant
in the Marine Corps. He is now a Major and is in the Pa-
cific area. He was on Guadalcanal and the Marshalls.

A. G. (“Jeff”) Davis, lives in Lewisburg, West Virginia.
He says he is always interested in the welfare of Washington
and Lee. “There is something about the place not found every-
where.” He was married to Annie Mary Via of Callaway, Vir-
ginia, on June 22, 1943.

Charles F. Harrison is practicing law in Leesburg, Vir-
ginia, and serving as Commonwealth’s Attorney. He has two
sons and two daughters, the oldest son and daughter being
twins. This son who is his namesake, is a Major in the regular
U. S. Army and was taken prisoner by the Japanese at the
fall of Bataan. The other son is a Captain in the Marines,
stationed for the past two years in the Southwest Pacific area.
His youngest daughter is married to a Lt. Col. in the Army
Air Corps. He has two grand-daughters both about two years

old.
1901

Matthew Page Andrews, Class Agent for 1901, is the
author of many historical books and papers, among them a
History of the United States, Brief History of the United
States, American History and Government, A heritage of
Freedom, The American Creed and its Meaning, Tercentenary
History of Maryland, Virginia, the Old Dominion, The Soul
of a Nation, and, more recently, Social Planning by Frontier
Thinkers. He is Director of the Maryland Branch of the
English-Speaking Union. His home is at 845 Park Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland.

John W. Johnson lives in Tuscumbia, Alabama. He regrets
that circumstances have prevented his being able to keep in
touch with Washington and Lee, or to retain or renew, the
friendships formed there. “However, in the background, there
has always remained an abiding interest in the college and
the things and associations pertaining thereto, and I applaud
that loyalty manifested by others; reflected in their efforts in
its behalf.” Since leaving college he has been primarily engaged
in handling real estate, in all of its phases, both urban and
rural; acting as both principal and agent in buying, selling,
developing and financing; and, by reason of living in the
heart of the most favored Tennessee Valley, he has prospered
his expectations.

 

Capt. William R. Francis, 34, adjutant of an AAF B-17
Flying Fortress squadron, recently promoted from the
grade of first lieutenant, is shown at his Italian base.

 

 

Clarence C. Burns is still practicing law in Lebanon, Vir-
ginia. He has six grandchildren, two of them living with him
while their father fights on the European front. William
Shuler Burns, B.A. ’38, LL.B. °40, is a Lieutenant in the
Naval Air Forces on a big aircraft carrier somewhere in the
Pacific.

1902

W. Dewey Cooke, Class Agent for 1902, is Vice-President
and Treasurer of the Southern Fertilizer and Chemical Com-
pany of Savannah, Georgia.

J. Wood Glass is one of the three Trustees of Henderson
Trusts, San Antonio, Texas. His home is in Nowata, Okla-
homa. He writes: “Life has not been difficult or uneventful
since our last communication. Since my financial interests are
largely in oil, and since oil is the ‘step-child’ of all the in-
dustries under Administration rule, there have been no war
profits. And this is not a matter of personal regret. My
connection with the Armed Forces continues to be through
my son, Julian W. Glass, Jr., a warrant officer in the Coast
Artillery, somewhere in the South Pacific. Since I have not
seen him since January “42, I am naturally interested in
sticking around until he gets back.”

1903

Cary R. Blain is running around like a sandpiper over a
home mission field of some 300 square miles in south eastern

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

North Carolina. Incidentally he’s enjoying the letters from
all over the United States that come to him as class agent.
His home is at Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina.

John M. B. Gill holds the record! He’s Rector of an
Episcopal Church in Oregon that boasts 44 percent of its
membership in the armed services! He keeps young covering
a field eighty miles long. His address is Lakeview, Oregon.

John Warner. Can you imagine anyone busier than a
doctor in war-time Washington, D. C., or any doctor busier
than an assistant to the overworked stork? No wonder Jack
Warner “nearly cracked” under the strain. He’s back now
as busy as ever.

W. J. Turner, most loyal alumnus, after thirty-five years
residence in Chile as General Manager of a copper company,
has retired from that position to become a Consulting Engi-
neer to the Kennicatt Copper Corporation, 120 Broadway,
New York City. He has a son in submarine service in the
Pacific, and another in the Army.

Fred W. Cramer reports both joys and headaches as his
company, the York Stone and Supply Company, of York,
Pennsylvania, continues its vital work of meeting farm
demands for limestone and fertilizers. His son, George, has
served in the Air Corps with Montgomery’s Eighth Army
in Africa and Italy.

1904

John McClure has been with the New Mexico Military
Institute since 1905, and is now head of the Chemistry De-
partment, and a Major in Chemical War Reserve. His daugh-
ter, Frances, wife of Lt. R. P. Kirch, now in the South Pacific,
and a two year old “high pressured” son, are living with
Major McClure for the duration. His son, John, Jr., is a
Captain in the U. S. Engineers.

K. I. McKay is a member of the law firm of McKay, Mac-
farlane, Jackson and Ferguson, First National Bank Building,
Tampa, Florida. He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
the University of Tampa. His oldest son, Kenneth, I., Jr., is
finishing his second year at the U. S. Naval Academy at An-
napolis. His other children are younger and still in the local
public schools.

W. O. Wilson is President of the Davenport Insurance
Corporation, Managers and Brokers, 113-15 East Main Street,
Richmond, Virginia. He was Chairman of the Fifth War
Loan for the City of Richmond; Director American Red
Cross; Director Richmond U.S.O., and Chairman of the Re-
employment Commission, Local Board No. 1.

John Henry Day, D.D., is Minister of the Seventh Baptist
Church, North Avenue and St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Mary-
land, where he has been since 1926. He says: “The war has
brought additional responsibilities. Our Church has assumed
responsibility for Saturday night lodging and Sunday morn-
ing breakfast for service men and to date (May 13, 1944)
3,300 accepted our hospitality. In addition we have 119 in ser-
vice from this parish and some mail is sent every one of them
each week, a service which, to judge by the response, is very
greatly appreciated.”

1905

Walter G. Riddick is Judge of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. We quote from his
letter: “The steady increase in the number of contributions
to the Alumni Fund is indeed gratifying. I hope that the very

modest goal of the association for this year will be surpassed.
Last month, for the first time in forty years, I visited the
University. I believe that if it would be possible to assemble
all of the 10,000 living alumni on the campus, the subscrip-
tions to the Alumni Fund would approximate one hundred
per cent.”

J. D. Hobbie, Jr., is President of Hobbie Brothers Co.,
music store in Roanoke, Virginia. He says it is rather difficult
at this time as all piano factories are either closed or manu-
facturing war supplies, and they have very little merchandise
to sell.

Harvey C. Crabill is practicing law in Monroeville, In-
diana. He says: “I often think of the members of our class
and have group pictures of most of them on the office wall,
but have not seen any of them since graduation. I have been
to Lexington four times since then.” His only son is a Major
in the Air Service and has been in England since the fall
of 1943.

1906

Basil Manly has recently been made chairman of the
Federal Power Commission in Washington for the period
ending June 22, 1948. He has been serving as the Commission’s
vice-chairman since 1933. In 1938 Mr. Manly was appointed
by President Roosevelt as vice-chairman of the National
Defense Power Commission. During World War I he was
joint chairman with former President William Howard Taft
of the National War Labor Board.

John W. Eggleston is one of the judges of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia, with offices at 301 City Hall
Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia. He writes: “I was sorry to
see notice of the death of our good friend, Dean Moreland
of the Law School. It was my good fortune to have known
him both as a student and as a practitioner when he was a
member of the Norfolk Bar. Since my elevation to the Bench
| have enjoyed a correspondence with him and particularly
his constructive and good-natured criticism of the work of
our court. His death is a great loss to the school and his
place will be hard to fill.”

James R. (Jimmie) Caskie is still practicing law in Lynch-
burg, Virginia, as a member of the firm of Caskie, Frost and
Watts. His nephew, James O. Watts, Jr., the youngest mem-
ber of the firm, is now a Lieutenant in the U. S. Navy. Lieu-
tenant Watts is a son of Mr. Caskie’s sister, Maude, who is
known to many Washington and Lee men from her attendance
at social functions here in “the good old days.” Notwithstand-
ing the fact that the Calyx in his graduation year predicted
that he would be the first member of the class to be married—
he is still a bachelor. Aside from his profession he has main-
tained an active interest in civic and church affairs. He is an
elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg and
has continuously served as teacher of the same Bible Class
for thirty-five years. He became a member of the University
Board of Trustees in 1924, and since that time has served both
as a member of the Board and of the Executive Committee.

Judge Richard B. (Buck) Spindle is Judge of the Cor-
poration Court, Norfolk, Virginia. He has learned some
geography since his son, Richard B., III, B.A. *42, Lt. (j.g.),
U. S$. Navy, has been in the service. He says: “As a slight
contribution to the war effort in the congested housing of
this great Naval Base we opened our home to young naval
officers and their wives. This has turned out to be both in-
teresting and educational, as we have come in contact with

[ 14 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

a cross section of young college boys and girls from Bowdoin
in Maine to the ‘University of Washington in the State of
Washington.” He has a renewed faith in the ultimate triumph
of good wholesome Americanism, and is proud of the great
contribution being made by Washington and Lee.

Albert (Kid) Steves is busy with many activities con-
nected with his large lumber business in San Antonio, Texas.
His family, consisting of five sons, has been augmented by
daughters-in-law and grandchildren. Four of his sons are
alumni of Washington and Lee; Albert, III, is a Captain in
the U. S. Army, Walter, a Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps,
and Marshall, a Midshipman at the U. S. Naval Academy.

David W. Pipes, Jr., lives in Terrebonne Parish, Houma,
Louisiana. He has a fine family with two sons and two
in-laws in the service, all hoping for reunion day before long.

Henry M. Bandy is a member of the Virginia House of
Delegates from Wise County. His home is at Norton, Vir-
ginia. His son Henry M. Bandy, Jr., °33, is now a Lieutenant,
senior grade. He was in active duty with the Gilbert Islands
force; also with the Marshall Islands force. He has since
been detached from his ship to teach “Naval Law” in the war
college at Newport, Rhode Island. He expects to soon be on
a new ship about to be commissioned.

Dr. L. J. Desha, professor of chemistry at Washington and
Lee, has been appointed to the three-man Special Board of
Examiners in Basic Science created by the 1944 General
Assembly to conduct examinations of applicants for licenses
to practice the healing arts in Virginia. The tenure of the
board is five years.

1907

Charles F. Bagley is President of the Union National
Bank, Fayetteville, Tennessee. He has three boys, two in the
Air Corps, Charles F., Jr., 41, and Joe H., ’45, and the other
too young to go.

Dr. Donald W. M. MacCluer is proud of the 151 members
of his congregation—Rose City Presbyterian Church, Port-
land, Oregon—in the armed forces. His work is prospering
and he says he has taken for his motto, “The older I get the
tougher I am, says Barnacle Bill the sailor.” He bewails the
lack of gas and the fact that the fish are still growing.

David H. Hill is now back in the New York Offices of
Merritt, Chapman and Scott, after having been with the New
London Connecticut office. His home is at 310 Edgewood
Avenue, Westfield, New Jersey.

Rev. A. R. Larrick, D.D., after having been Minister of
the First Presbyterian Church of Plant City, Florida, re-
signed this position to look after all the Presbyterians in
Central and South Florida. He superintends the organization
of new work, the supplying of churches with new pastors,
and trouble shooter for any of the sixty-five churches in this
territory.

1908

Horace W. (Rags) Phillips did not like the principle of
a “fourth term” as Class Agent, but he was drafted for the
job and carried it through with “wim and wigor.” His only
son is a Captain in the Infantry. His home is at Hardeeville,
South Carolina.

John M. Bierer says there are few changes in his life since
last year, except that he is a “little older and a little crankier.”

His son, Jack, who graduated from Washington and Lee in
1937 has been in the Army since February, 1941, returned
from the Aleutians in August 1943, after having spent eighteen
months there.

Clivie Carpenter, Jr., is President of the First National
Bank, Clifton Forge, Virginia. His son, Lt. Deverton, W. &
L,. °37, is with the invasion forces in England, his daughter
is with American Air Lines as a Stewardess, and his younger
son is with the Air Corps in Colorado.

Phil Page is still with the Chicago Journal of Commerce,
12 East Grand Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. His son, Philip, Jr.,
W. & L. ’45, was in the A.S.T.P. at Syracuse University in
May, '44, and expected to finish there in August.

Rev. Grover C. Gabriel is District Superintendent of The
Central Pennsylvania Conference of the Evangelical Church.
It is his duty to supervise the work of the pastorate and
churches in the District and also promote the interest and
program of the entire church. He has two boys and three
girls; both of the boys being in the service. His son who is
in the Navy recently visited Grover Batten ’08, in Honolulu,
Hawaii, where he was most hospitably received.

Howard N. Clendening has been in poor health for the
past two years. He is now living at Inwood, West Virginia.
His son, Herbert C. Clendening, W. & L,. ’38, is now a Major,
somewhere in India or Burma, with the Engineers.

Major Abram D. Somerville writes from Camp Joseph T.
Robinson, Arkansas. He has an A.B. degree from Washington
and Lee and a diploma from Virginia Military Institute and

 

 

Flight Officer Joe Willis Lydick, ’39, received his silver
pilot wings at Blackland Army Air Field, Waco, Texas

[15]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

one from West Point. He says he has now lived in every

State of the South. He has tried desperately hard to get
overseas and says he feels so young that he can’t see why
they think he is too old.

Col. Lewis C. Gordon is teaching for the Army at Michi-
gan College of Mining and Technology. Home: 1304 College
Avenue, Houghton, Michigan.

Commander J. P. Norfleet, USN, Joint Operations Center,
Cape May, New Jersey, says he has a happy and comfortable
location, so good that he is planning to move on and let some
evacuee from the Pacific take his place, since he has always
wanted to spend a hitch on a South Sea Island.

1909

Dr. John W. Claudy, Class Agent for 1909, was a Presby-
terian Minister before he took on his present job as Superin-
tendent of the Rockview Farm Prison near Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania.

Charles S. Glasgow is still practicing law in Lexington.
He writes his Class Agent as follows: “From my numerous
contacts with the Special Service Officers, I am satisfied
that Washington and Lee, through the location of this school
has and is receiving the finest advertisement in its history. Not
infrequently have officers said to me that such is the case,
and that the over-whelming sentiment of the officers who pass
through Washington and Lee Special Service School is to
send their sons to our Alma Mater.”

Dr. Chalmers H. Moore, Medical Arts Building, Birming-
ham, Alabama. His work is restricted to surgery of the
brain, and has been for the past ten years. He is visiting
Nemo-logical Surgeon to several hospitals and Chief of the
Department of Nemological Surgery, Hillman Hospital Birm-
ingham. Consulting Nemological Surgeon to the Holy Name
Hospital, Gadsden, Alabama, and Druid City Hospital, Tusca-
loosa, Alabama.

John Lyle Campbell and his wife, who was Nell Brocken-
brough, are still living in their beautiful home, “Stono” in
Lexington. Their son and daughter are both in the service,
John Lyle, Jr., is now a Captain and Emily, a Lieutenant,
in the Marine Corps.

Sam M. Engelhardt is in the insurance business under the
name of Engelhardt and Garland, and is also Purchasing
Agent for the City of Montgomery, Alabama. When his letter
was written in May, his daughter was in Washington waiting
to be sent overseas as Staff Assistant for the American Red
Cross. His son, Sam, Jr., W. & L,. 34, is operating a large
plantation near Montgomery. He is married and has three
children, two of them husky boys, “who will make good
Washington & Lee football material some years hence.”

Guyte P. McCord is Clerk of the Supreme Court of
Florida, Tallahassee, Florida.

Reuben H. Ragland is a member of the law firm of Rag-
land, Kurz & Layton, with offices in the Consolidated Build-
ing, Jacksonville, Florida.

1910

Elton Watkins is practicing law in the Failing Building,
Portland, Oregon. He says: “Felicitations to one and all!
Yours truly can simply report progress, due, perhaps to mis-
takes of others, to-wit: Washington and Lee in making me

an alumnus; Supreme Court of Oregon in admitting me to
the Bar; Supreme Court of the United States of America in
certifying me to be a lawyer; Woodrow Wilson in appoint-
ing me Assistant U. S. District Attorney; people of Oregon
in electing me to Congress; best woman in Oregon marrying
me, giving me two of the finest children in the whole wide
world; clients having no better judgment than to engage me
as attorney, paying me in good F. D. R. coin, win, lose or
draw; and, last, but not least, a good father and a Christian
mother indigenous of Mississippi, who put me on the right
track, believing that as I grew old I would not stray very far
afield, and so was I born and bred, or thusly:

Baptist bred

And Baptist born

And when I’m dead,

A Baptist gone.

My law office is adorned only with the picture of the match-
less Lee, and that of our University.”

Charles I. Dwiggins is still living in Lakeland, Florida. He
is engaged in producing citrus fruits. His son, William Clay
Dwiggins, W. & L. °37, is a First Lieutenant in the Marine
Corps.

Col. LeRoy Hodges has been promoted to full Colonel
and assigned as Advance Officer, Headquarters, Virginia State
Guard, for the duration. His home is at 3505 Seminary
Avenue, Richmond 22, Virginia.

Hamilton A. (Tubby) Derr is president of Vanguard
Paints and Finishes, Inc., of Marietta, Ohio. His activities
have been very definitely channeled by the present general
conditions in business, his work, however, giving him an
opportunity to help in the general program of production for
war needs with the observation of many different industries
and activities.

John H. Tucker, Jr., is again practicing law in Shreveport,
Louisiana, as a member of the firm of Tucker, Bronson and
Martin, Commerce Building. He was called out for active
duty with the Army on the first of November, 1940, and
except for about 34% months in early ’42, when he was inactive
due to ill health, was in the service until returned to the
inactive status again at his own request, as of March 1, 1944,
at which time he was a Colonel and a member of the War
Department Board of Contract Appeals in the office of the
Under Secretary of War.

Robert G. Thach is practicing law in the Woodward Build-
ing, Washington, D. C., principally handling aviation and
departmental matters. He says: “I was a pilot in the last
war and was greatly disappointed that I was a little too old
and ‘shop worn’ to get back in the Air Corps this time; but
both my boys are pilots in the Army Air Forces, one of them
having attended Washington and Lee one year.” (Robert
G.,- J; "420.

Walter Hood, Class Agent for ’10-Law, is still Secretary
ot the Alabama Power Company, Birmingham, Alabama. He
had many interesting letters from the members of his class.

J. M. Bell is Resident Director of the Rio de Janeiro Tram-
way, Light and Power Company, Ltd., of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. He says: “I have just had the pleasure of visiting the
States and Canada for a couple of months over the end of
the year and of having the opportunity of seeing at first hand
some of the great work you fellows at home are doing. It is
almost impossible to get any real appreciation of this work

[ 16 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

or to realize the sacrifices made by the folks at home unless
one goes there and circulates around a bit.”

Hugh Hawthorne is Vice-President of the Pocahontas
Fuel Company, Incorporated, 1 Broadway, New York. He
has been in New York about twenty-five years. Once a month
he gets down to Virginia where his business interests are.
He says they have an attractive Washington and Lee group
in New York, mentioning as among those his class agent
will recall, Gaston Caperton and Joe Lykes.

Walter McDonald is still in the printing business under
the firm name of The McDonald Printing Company, Arbor
Place, Cincinnati, Ohio. He reports a hectic time carrying
on his business under present conditions, especially due to
the fact that they are not an essential industry. His firm
has lost some forty-five boys to the service, and of course,
it is out of the question to replace them now. He looks for-
ward to a reunion in Lexington at some time in the not too
distant future.

W. L. Tilden went to Orlando, Florida, immediately upon
graduation in 1910, married, and has two daughters, both
married, the older to Warren H. Edwards, W. & L., B. A.
"39, now a Major in the Marine Corps in the Pacific, and the
younger to James Simpson Penny, IJr., who is in the Air
Force. He served as Prosecuting Attorney for six years; as
Judge of the Criminal Court of Record from 1924 to 1929;
as Attorney for the Board of County Commissioners from
1931 to 1941. His firm, Tilden, Hays & Cargill, is now City
Attorneys, with offices in the Florida Bank Building, Orlando.
Due to his family’s interest in citrus fruit, he has given that
much attention, serving as President of the Florida Citrus
Exchange for two and a half years, and has served on the
Florida Citrus Commission for approximately three years.

John R. Coates is practicing law in the Columbia Mutual
Tower, Memphis, Tennessee. He says: “Since the adjourn-
ment of our class in 1910, I have done nothing but practice
law, enjoyed the fields, woods and streams, and so, though
the road of life now starts down the other way and not being
as brisk as I once was, still looking back over these years |
see much to be thankful for and an abundance of accumulated
pleasures enjoyed,’ His son, John R. Coates, Jr., is now a
Captain in the Glider Infantry—soon to be made a Major.
He is twenty-four.

1911

F. P. Guthrie, Class Agent for *11-A, is District Communi-
cations Manager of R. C. A. Communications, Incorporated,
1112 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C.

S. R. Gammon is head of the history department of Texas
A. & M., College Station, Texas. His son, Lieut. S. R. Gam-
mon, III, was a student in the School for Special Service and
Morale at Washington and Lee in the spring.

A. Dana Hodgdon, after many years in Foreign Service,
is now in the Liaison Office of the Department of State with
War and Navy, and is kept busy. He says: “Kindly remember
me to any old friends you may meet and tell them that my
latch string is always out.” His home is at 2905 32nd Street,

N.W., Washington, D. C.

Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt spent only one year at Washington
and Lee but prizes highly the contacts made and benefits
received from his short stay. His oldest son, Sam, Jr., ’41,
is a Lieutenant in the Navy and his second son, Dow is flying

a pe “% x aN e - +e ty x zy Ff =<
Sone

 

Sy

 

The “Short Snorter” Lt. Col. Arthur P. Bondurant, ’28,
is holding is a souvenir of a recent trip around the world
on which he visited Army Air Forces installations in
every theater of operations. (See Class Note.)

 

a Fortress in England. His address is 306 Calhoun Drive.
Moffitt Village, Wilmington, N. C.

James M. Barker, Jr., is still in the insurance business in
Bristol, Tennessee, and he and his brother, “Hink.” operate
two local hotels. He is a director in Dominion National Bank
and Bristol Savings and Loan. He is winding up his 14th
year as secretary of the local Rotary Club; secretary-treasurer
of the Insurance Association; member of the Planning Com-
mission; and a First Presbyterian Deacon. He thinks the
Class Agent Plan has proven its right to live.

Luther G. Scott, Class Agent for 1911-L, is practicing law
in Bluefield, West Virginia, with offices in the Commercial
Bank Building.

Roger Winborne is still with the Bernhardt Furniture
Company, Lenoir, North Carolina. His son, Roger M., Jr.,
W. & L. °46, is with one of the Army’s specialized training
groups at the University of Pennsylvania. Roger, Sr., is the
editor of the 1944 Edition of the Annual of the Law Class of
1911. Owing to the faithful work of the men who have pub-
lished this Annual for over thirty years, the Law Class of
1911 is the best organized Class on our Alumni Files.

Omer T. Kaylor is practicing law in Hagerstown, Mary-
land. His son, Omer T., Jr., 45, has been attending the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in the Navy V-12

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

program, and was later at Soldier’s Field, Boston. He was due
to become an Ensign in June.

George Chaney has his Law office at 1209 Coca Cola
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. His son, Geo. W.. 0,2 ee
has been in England for seventeen months. He has been an
Ingineer attached to an air plane field.

1912

Judge A. G. Lively is a member of the law firm of Burns
& Lively, 1-2-3 Burns Building, Lebanon, Virginia.

Wayne Ely, Attorney at Law, Tenth Floor, Commerce
Building, St. Louis, Missouri, writes that he has two boys in
the service, a married daughter, and a younger daughter in
high school. He himself divides his time between practicing
law and fishing in the Ozark Mountains.

Clayton E. (“Skinny”) Williams divides his time between
teaching law and his farm. His son, Lt. Samuel Clayton
Williams, ’44, was commissioned a pilot in the Air Corps at
Waco, Texas in June, 1944.

1913

C. C. (Red) Moore, Class Agent for 1913-A, is District
Manager of the Pittsburgh Equitable Meter Company, Bona
Allen Building, Atlanta 3, Georgia.

Bob Witt is President of Builders Supply Company of San
Antonio, Texas. His older daughter, Ellison, graduated at
Smith College in June 1943, returned to Smith for officer
training in the WAVES, and is now on duty in Texas. The
younger daughter, Sally, graduated at Chatham Hall in Vir-
ginia in June and was planning to enter Smith this fall. He
gets back to Lexington, which is his home-town, occasionally.

William A. Hyman is practicing law at 111 Fulton Street,
New York. He says: “Incidentally, the New York Alumni had
the pleasure of having at lunch Bishop Lloyd Craighill, who
just returned from China, being one of the exchange prisoners
on the Gripsholm. He is still the same bright, scintillating
and courteous gentleman and scholar that he was as a stu-
dent. We were all happy indeed to be with him. When we
think of the life of sacrifice and altruism he has led, and the
cause that he has served, we cannot avoid a sense of humility
and even reproach that our lives have not followed such a

noble course.”

Henry E. Peeples is still at the old stand operating a real
estate and general insurance business in a suburb of Atlanta,
Jecatur, Georgia. His son, Ist Lt. Henry C. Peeples is now a
prisoner of war in Germany. He spent two years at Wash-
ington and Lee before he enlisted. He was a first pilot on a
Flying Fortress and after having made several raids over
Germany his ship was shot down in August 1943. He was not
hurt but was captured. His letters are cheerful and he appears
to get a big kick out of having time to read a great deal. His
daughter has graduated at the University of Georgia and is
now holding a position as a chemist in a plant at Boundbrook.
She was an honor student and her family is very proud of her.

Adrian Williamson is a Colonel in the Army Air Forces,
having been inducted into Federal Service as Commander of
the Arkansas National Guard Air Squadron in September
1940. After being stationed here for two years on the Air
Forces Staff, he got an overseas assignment and left for India
on January 11, 1944. He had attended the Quebec and Cairo

 

#4 j x oi jee. é |
Ist Lt. Russell Hugh Neilson, Jr., ’43, is a Marine fighter
pilot. Picture taken on Bouzainville.

 

conferences prior to that and just before going to India re-
ceived the Legion of Merit citation and medal for “exceptional
meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding
services.”

Benjamin F. Fiery is still practicing law in the Union Com-
merce Building, Cleveland, Ohio. He and his daughter had a
two weeks vacation at The Homestead at Hot Springs in the
spring, but on account of transportation difficulties, were
unable to get to Lexington. He reports that “Ted” Evans,
‘19, is Rector of St. Paul’s I.piscopal Church in Cleveland
and has succeeded in making him a Vestryman.

Henry B. Goodloe, Class Avent for 1913-Law, is practicing
law in Crozet and Charlottesville. Virginia, Secretary of the
County Electoral Board, U. S. Commissioner for Albemarle
and adjacent counties and is teaching algebra, physics and
military at Miller Manual Labor School for the emergency.
He served as captain during World War I; remained in the
Officers’ Reserve Corps and now holds the rank of Lieutenant
Colonel, inactive.

Howard P. Macfarlane is a member of the law firm of
McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson, of Tampa
K lorida. He is Chairman of the Hillsborough Defense Council.
His son, Hugh C. Macfarlane, W. & L.. *40, is a Lieutenant
(j.g.) in the Navy and is now on service somewhere on the
Atlantic side.

Junius W. Pulley has been Commonwealth’s Attorney of
Southampton County, Courtland. Virginia, for more than
nine years, having been elected the last two terms without

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

opposition. The office of Director-Coordinator for Southamp-
ton County has taken a good deal of his time since the war.
He has five children, the two oldest a girl and a boy, are
married. One of his sons Franklin B., entered Washington
and Lee in the fall of 1942, but volunteered in the Naval Air
Corps in February 1943 at the age of 17. He has been assigned
tc an aircraft carrier.

Howard L. Robinson is a member of the law firm ot
Robinson and Stump, Union National Bank Building, Clarks-
burg, West Virginia, and does some farming on the side.
His partner is John S. Stump, Jr., LL.B., ’24.

1914

Alex M. Hitz is a practicing attorney with offices in
Citizens and Southern National Bank Building, Atlanta,
Georgia, and is President of W. & L. Atlanta Chapter,
Alumni, Inc. Alex has taken an active part in Bar Association
and American Legion work, and is past commander of the
American Legion Post there. He is married and has two sons
and one daughter. His son Alex, Jr., is a graduate of W. & L.
and is at present serving with the Army Air Corps in India.
He expects to get back to Lexington, since his younger son
will attend W. & L. and his daughter will attend one of the
Virginia Schools.

Walter H. Eager represents Pennsylvania Mutual Life
Insurance Company at San Diego, California. His address is
106 West Spruce Street. He is also serving as Chairman of
War Price and Rationing Board there, which work he enjoys.
He likes the class agent idea.

Clarence L. Sager is a Counsellor at Law, with offices at
30 East 42nd Street, New York City.

Dr. Julian L. Selig is an Optometrist, and is practicing
his profession at 511 East Main Street, Elizabeth City, North
Carolina.

W. Houston Barclay is living in Wichita, Kansas, which
city he says has doubled in size since the war. He is married
and is the proud father of two sons and two daughters, all of
whom attended school in the East, except the youngest who
is in school in Kansas. His oldest son is in the U. S. Army—
Infantry—serving overseas.

Maurice R. Dodd is Assistant Superintendent of Kanawha
County Schools at Charleston, West Virginia.

Colonel Francis P. Miller is serving overseas with the
Army.

Henry N. Barker, Class Agent, is a practicing attorney
with offices at 10 Sixth Street, Bristol. He is married and has
a son and daughter, 19 and 16 respectively. His son is in his
final training as an Aviation Cadet for pilot training in the
Army.

R. Lee Beuhring, Class Agent for 1914-Law, is practicing
law in Huntington, West Virginia.

Carlisle H. Morrissett is still Tax Commissioner of the
State of Virginia, with offices in the State Office Building,
Richmond. He says: “The class agent plan is well worth con-
tinuing indefinitely on the basis of its record.”

A. C. Buchanan is Judge of the Twenty-second Judicial
Circuit, counties of Tazewell, Giles and Bland. His home is in
Tazewell, Virginia.

1915

Sayers F. Harman is now associated with Yukon Poca-
hontas Coal Company, Tazewell, Virginia. He responded to
his class letter with a very liberal contribution but did not
have time to write.

W. W. Skowalter, is married, has three children, one boy
in the Air Corps, and has been employed for the past sixteen
years in the Clarksburg Post Office, Clarksburg, West Vir-
ginia.

James E. Bear continues with the Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

Dr. Daniel Lester Snyder has a church assignment at
Milton, West Virginia.

Robert M. McGehee is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Palacios, Texas. After leaving W. & L. he entered
Southwestern University and is now Class Agent for his class
there.

Ki Williams, President of the Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., was elected one of the Directors of the Virginia
Manufacturers’ Association at the annual meeting of the
Association held in Lynchburg, Virginia, on October 14, 1944.

J. D. Trimble, Class Agent for 1915-Law is practicing law
in the Trimble Building, El Derado, Arkansas. He bewails
the fact that in the three years he has served as class agent
he has not had a response from a member of the class from
Virginia and only three from east of the Mississippi.

Four members of the Law Class of 1915 were in attend-
ance at the recent Democratic Convention in Chicago; Carl
C. Wurzbach, San Antonio, Texas, Joe W. Milner, Gulfport,
Mississippi, Leon W. Harris, Anderson, South Carolina, and
John D. Trimble, El Dorado, Arkansas.

W. A. Keleher is an attorney and counsellor at law with
othces in the First National Bank Building, Albuquerque,
New Mexico.

1916
(Notes written by Harrison P. Magruder, Class Agent)

Dr. David T. Hyatt has practiced medicine in Little Rock,
Arkansas, since graduation from Johns Hopkins, specializing
in the field of Internal Medicine, and managing to keep busy
all the time.

R. Hugh Jarvis, with the Freeport Coal Company, Mor-
gantown, West Virginia, has a family of four daughters, all
of whom, except the youngest, now in high school, have
attended West Virginia University, and a son (also an alum-
nus of West Virginia University) who has been in the army
two years, serving now at Camp Hulen, Texas, in the Anti-
aircraft section of the Artillery. Hugh writes: “Mrs. Jarvis
and the writer are very busy most of the time with the two
grandchildren.”

M. Cecil (Jack) Horner has represented the Equitable
Life Assurance Society in Morristown. Tennessee, for the
pest fifteen years. He writes, “I have reared a family of a
daughter now age 22, graduate of University of Tennessee,
married to Chas. E. Bettis, recently a master in W oodberry
Forest School for Boys, employed now by Clinton kK ngineer
Works at Clinton, Tennessee. I have a son, age 20, cadet pilot
in the Air Corps receiving basic flying training. I am Chapter
Chairman of Red Cross, District Commissioner of Boy Scouts,

[19 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Deacon, First Presbyterian Church; Assistant Director Citi-
zens Service Corps, Past President of Rotary. My recreation
at present is an angler of bass in Cherokee Lake. I hope to
get to a Class reunion some of these days and renew old
acquaintanceship with you and the other boys.”

John G. C. (Chief) Myers, Lexington, Kentucky, has for
fifteen years been with Southwestern Portland Cement Com-
pany as District Sales Manager, and is associated with his
brother in Central Supply Company, Danville, Kentucky,
Distributors of Industrial Equipment. John, who completed
his education at Centre College, Danville, Kentucky, after
leaving W. & L. in 1913, has two sons, both in the Air Corps,
navigator and bombardier. He adds: “While in the Army in
World War I, I married Anne Cohen, of Frankfort, Ken-
tucky, who graduated from Randolph-Macon Womans Col-
lege in 1917. I believe these are the highlights of my life.”

Edwin B. (Ted) Shultz, football “immortal” and distin-
guished for scholarly attainments as well, is Personnel Man-
ager, Tennessee Valley Authority, Norris, Tennessee.

Wiley D. Forbus, of the faculty of Duke University School
ol Medicine, Department of Pathology, writes: “The Army
has this profession of ours burning at both ends! It takes our
teachers and our students as soon as they are graduated,
leaving us virtually nothing to work with. So we just carry on
as best we can.” Wiley is modest concerning his own accom-
plishments, but we recall his membership in Phi Beta Kappa
at W. & L,., his graduation from Johns Hopkins with dis-
tinction, and there is no doubt that, notwithstanding his
reticence in recounting achievements, he is a highly valued
member of Duke's medical faculty.

Earl B. Rose, Class Agent for 1916-L, is an Attorney-at-
Law at 537 North Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky. His home
is in Beattyville, Kentucky.

William C. (Bill) Raftery has recently been made Super-
visor of Plant Protection and Recreation at the DuPont
Plant, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Clarence J. Brown is Representative of the 7th District
ot Ohio, Congress of the United States. He was renominated
for Congress, without opposition in the primary, and inas-
much as he has a heavy Republican District, should be re-
elected without any difficulty. Home: Blanchester, Ohio.

Parker W. Buhrman, who has been Consul General, Bel-
fast Ireland, was in Washington, D. C., when his letter was
written in May. He has been visiting prisoner of war camps
in this country as the representative of the Department of
State for the past eight months.

Grady H. Forgy has spent a great deal of his time for the
past four or five years in Washington, D. C., where he is
still busily engaged in Public Relations work for the Petro-
leum Industry in the ten Southern States and Washington,
D. C. His two sons, Grady, Jr., °42, and John, °44, are both
in the service. Address: 615 Rector Building, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

1917

Dr. Charles W. McNitt, Class Agent for 1917, has his
offices at 130 E. 67th Street, New York and Medical Centre
Building, White Plains, New York.

Harry K. (Cy) Young is now back at Washington and
Lee on the job as Alumni Secretary, after two years in goy-

ernment service with the Department of Censorship. In these
two years many things have happened to Cy—living for
many months in Puerto Rico, participation in the Battle of
Washington, etc., etc., but of paramount importance is the
fact that he has attained grandfathership. His son, Neely,
now a Captain in the Army Air Corps, with his wife and nine
months old son, are visiting Grandmother and Grandfather
Young in Lexington.

E. L. (Ned) Hix for the past five years has been Superin-
tendent of the Special Alloy Division of the Electro Metal-
lurgical Company at Niagara Falls. He has been with this
company since shortly after graduation and has worked at
various technical assignments both in research and production
prior to his present position. In this capacity he has been able
tc contribute directly to the war effort by producing many of
those mysterious alloying elements which make possible the
tough and corrosion resisting steels that are essential for
building all kinds of fighting equipment. Just before “Prior-
ities” he built a new home near the brink of the lower gorge
about four miles below the Falls. He says it sounds weird,
but it is a very delightful place for a home. They moved
in the day before Pearl Harbor. A few weeks before the new
home was ready, his only son died very suddenly from men-
ingitis. Recovery from that shock has been slow and painful.

James Miles Faulkner is still serving as Division Super-
visor of the Fire Companies’ Adjustment Bureau, Liberty
Bank Building, Dallas, Texas. He has two sons in the service,
Jim, Jr., “40, is a Lieutenant in the Navy and recently re-
turned to this country from sixteen months of service in the
Southwest Pacific. His second son, Tommy is a Second Lieu-
tenant in the Air Corps and first pilot on a Liberator Bomber.

William H. F. LaMont has been associate professor of
nglish at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the past twenty-two years. He received his doctorate at
the University of Pennsylvania in 1933, specializing in the
novel. At present he is engaged in writing a book concerned
with the Technique of the Novel.

S. E. Durrance is practicing law in Orlando, Florida, with
offices in the Fidelity Building. He is much distressed to learn
of the death of his class agent, Sam Silverstein, whose picture,
he says, is in a class group near his office desk.

J. Seybert Hansel practices law in his home town of
Monterey, Virginia. He says he spends about half his time
in his work as Chairman of the War Finance Committee.
He expects to send his sons to Washington and Lee.

Harry V. Campbell is a member of the law firm of Blue,
Dayton & Campbell, Security Building, Charleston, West
Virginia. He had an attack of influenza at Christmas time
which necessitated a trip to Florida from which he reported
that he returned much improved in body and mind and prac-
tically wrecked financially.

1918

Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., Class Agent for 1918, is Owner
and Editor of the Rockbridge County News, Lexington, Vir-
ginia. His eldest son, Matthew W., III, is a freshman at
Washington and Lee, and the younger, Robert, is in graded
school.

Homer A. (Rocky) Holt, former Governor of West Vir-
ginia, is now back in law practice with the firm of Brown,
Jackson & Knight, Charleston, West Virginia. He was re-
cently elected to the Board of Directors of Union Carbide and

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Carbon Company. A member of the University Board of
Trustees, he is a frequent visitor to the campus.

Robert V. Ignico, Brigadier General United States Army
Air Force, says there is little he can tell about himself. How-
ever, the Rockbridge County News, Lexington, Virginia,
August 10, is less reticent. We quote:

Headquarters Alaskan Department—Award of the Legion
ot Merit to Brig. Gen. Robert V. Ignico of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, commander of the 11th Air Force Service Command,
for performance of outstanding service in manning and
equiping the bases used by the 11th Air Force in Alaska and
the Aleutians was announced recently at Alaskan Department
headquarters.

The general, who came up through the ranks and has
served in the Air Corps since the last war, was cited for his
part in the development of the chain of airfields used by the
Air Force in the campaign “which drove the Japanese from
the Aleutians and were later used as bases for air operations
against the Kuriles, as well as for supply and transportation
or Air Corps combat elements.”

“Fighting against time and weather, and in spite of short-
ages of equipment and transportation,” his citation said, “he
provided complete support for air operations.

“His devotion to duty, judicious foresight and capabilities
in logistics and management were largely responsible for
the successful Air Force operations in the Alaska theater and
reflect great credit on himself and the Army Air Forces.”

Rated a balloon pilot and observer, a combat observer
and an aircraft observer, General Ignico was a Marine private
in 1917. He transferred to the Aviation Section of the Signal
Corps that same year, and was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant in January, 1918. He is a graduate of the Army In-
dustrial College, the Airship School, the Air Service advanced
Flying School, and the Air Corps Tactical School. He was
awarded the Air Medal last September.

Gen. Ignico attended Washington and Lee, 1915-17. He
married Miss Arlene Davidson of Rockbridge county. His
wife and daughter are living here now.

Commander Warren W. Sager was commissioned in the
U.S. Navy Medical Corps in January, 1942, and called to
active duty on August 31, 1942. He is stationed in Washing-
ton, D. C., and his address is 4428 Edmunds Street, N.W.

Allein Beall, Jr., is a merchandise broker in Helena,
Arkansas. He had a close call in the spring of 1943 when he
was very ill with a ruptured appendicitis case, but is entirely
well again. His son Allein Beall, III, entered the U. S. Naval
Air Corps in July 1943 and is now at U. S. Naval Air Station
at Bunker Hill, Indiana. He reports the birth of a grandson
on June 22, 1944, son of his daughter Cornelia, now Mrs.
James F. Graham.

Raymond M. Bear says he is still on the job pushing the
development of bigger and better airplane propellers for the
U. S. Navy, and hoping for an early end of these days of
high pressure effort and general confusion. Home 1401
Fairmont Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Dr. Robert G. Vance, with his brother, Dr. L. Alexander
Vance, ’31, in the Navy and his other partner in the Army,
is looking after the X-ray work in seven hospitals, and would
like to get in the service and get a little rest. Address: 262
Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

Edmund D. Campbell, of Washington, D. C., great-grand-
son of the Founder of Mary Baldwin College, Staunton,

 

Sgt. Samuel J. Graham, Jr., *43
(See Class Note)

 

Virginia, was elected president of the Mary Baldwin board
of trustees, October 26, 1944. His family have been closely
identified with the history of the school since its foundation.
Dr. Rufus W. Bailey, who established the school as Augusta
Female Seminary was Mr. Campbell’s great-grandfather. The
great-grandmother, grand-mother and grand-father of the
new president of the Mary Baldwin board of trustees, taught
at Augusta Female Seminary, his grand-father, John L.
Campbell, later going to Washington College, now Wash-
ington and Lee University. His father, the late Harry D.
Campbell, ’82, Dean of Washington and Lee University, was
a member of the Mary Baldwin Board of Trustees, and his
wife, the former Miss Elizabeth Pfohl, was dean of the college
before her marriage.

1919

W. F. Barron, Class Agent for the Class of 1919, is with
the Rome Coca-Cola Bottling Company, Rome, Georgia.

Major Reid White, Jr., had been over-seas for twenty-
eight months when his letter was written. He sends his best
to all the boys of 1919.

Mason M. Hurd writes his class agent a poem, as follows:
“Enclosed is something from Montraville to Willie F.
For good old W. & L. U., its true.
Just the same it’s in the name of another big F:
Friendships in colors of WHITE AND BLUE.”

His address is P. O. Box 325, Hot Springs, South Dakota.

Sim B. Christy, Jr., is District Manager of the Sun Oil
Company, Lansing, Michigan. He has been with this company
since leaving Washington and Lee in 1919. He is “infuriated”

[21]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

at being told that he is too old for this and that branch of the
armed services, more especially because his son, Sim Christy,
IV, is now serving with the Army in England, and his wife
is an Ensign in the Coast Guards and assigned as Welfare
Officer for the 7th Naval District, Miami, Florida. Therefore,
he is more or less alone for the duration.

Ray Till has been attached to the Naval Air Forces for
over two years, and says that for his age of 51, he seems to
be getting along O.K. “No aches or pains hover around and
I always feel good except for getting tired once in awhile.”
He came back into the Navy after service in World War I,
as a Chief Boats’ns Mate and was recommended for a com-
mission in May 1943, but nothing came of it and now he Says
he is well satisfied with his rating and hopes he will always
stay in the ranks of the enlisted men. For the grand-father
of two, this sounds pretty good.

1920
(Notes written by Thomas McA. Stubbs, Class Agent)

Ott Magruder is still in New York City. Address 161 W.
78th Street.

Hope D. Stark is Solicitor General Piedmont Circuit and
resides at Lawrenceville, Georgia.

Lt. Wentworth F. Myers is now stationed in China.

Glen Evins is with the Fairchild Aircraft Corporation at
Hagerstown, Maryland, for the duration.

Alex Walker resides in Philadelphia. His son, Alex, Jr.,
finished at Washington and Lee in 1944.

Howard McCain is Vice-President of the William Hen-
gerer Corporation, Buffalo, New York.

Harry P. Burns resides in Atlanta with his charming
wife, Martha. He is Southern representative of the Corticelli
Silk Company.

Joseph M. Glickstein is a lawyer engaged in general
practice in Jacksonville, Florida, with offices in the Guaranty
Trust and Savings Bank Building. His eldest son, Joseph, Jr.,
was awarded the Carnegie Medal for Heroism on May 5,
1944. He and another Jacksonville boy, James H. Marby,
saved the lives of two young women at Neptune Beach,
Florida.

Berkeley Cox, Class Agent for 1920-Law, is an A.B. of
the Class of 1914, as well as an LL.B. of ’20. He is still with
the Legal Department of Aetna Life Insurance Company,
Hartford, Connecticut.

1921

John L. Patterson, Class Agent for 1921 has been in the
insurance business in St. Louis, continuously since leaving
college in 1921. He is now manager of the St. Louis Branch
of the Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company, which
position he has held since 1932. Address: 304-318 Pierce
Building, St. Louis, Missouri.

Major John T. Bate, U. S. Army Medical Corps, has
served in many posts, “the present one being hot and
isolated.” Address 1122 Heyburn Building, Louisville, Ken-
tucky.

Commander Daniel Blain, also called Senior Surgeon in
the Public Health Service, is in charge of one of the branches

of the War Shipping Administration, specifically that which
has to do with the care of all men of the Merchant Marine
who have been torpedoed, or who have become survivors or
repatriates in other ways from foreign shores. Address 107
Washington Street, New York 6, New York.

Col. William J. Rushton, is Commanding Officer, Birm-
ingham Ordnance District. His address is P. O. Box 2571,
sirmingham 2, Alabama.

Major Samuel L. Raines volunteered in the Medical Corps
in November 1942. Since September 1943, he has been Chief
of Surgery at Fort Dix, New Jersey.

R. C. Wood, Class Agent for '21-L, is practicing law in
Lynchburg, Virginia, with offices in the Peoples National
Bank Building.

Roy J. Grimley, the enthusiastic and efficient President
of the New York Alumni Chapter, lives at 7 North Broad
Street, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

Carl E. L. Gill is Director of Industrial Relations for the
Wanskuck Company of Providence, Rhode Island. It has
been about six or seven years since he has been in Lexington
but he hopes that next spring will be a year when hostilities
will be over and normal activities will be resumed at Wash-
ington and Lee. He is interested in the Democratic and
Republican nominees for Governor of West Virginia, Clarence
Meadows, Democratic, having been a student and protege
of his, and Boone Dawson, Republican, a member of his law
class.

1922

Troy C. Musselwhite, Class Agent for 1922, is an attorney
and counsellor-at-Law, Williams Building, Orlando, Florida.

Paul L. Thornburg moved from his old home in Hunting-
ton, West Virginia, on June 10, to Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, to take the position of general sales manager with
the Brown-Rogers-Dixson Company of that city.

Charles O. Handley is Professor of Biology at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute. He says: “Our book, “The Wild Turkey
in Virginia: Its Status, Life History and Management,’ by
Mosby and Handley, published by the Commission of Game
and Inland Fisheries of Virginia, received the citation of
The Wildlife Society for the best publication in the field of
wildlife research during 1943. This action was quite unex-
pected and needless to say, gratifying, coming as it did from
the leading organization in the field of wildlife research.”

Matthew C. G. Henderson is now a Major with a Tank
Battalion, serving overseas.

Wilfred B. Webb changed schools last year from Augusta
Military Academy to Staunton Military Academy after
eighteen years at the former school. He is now head of the
English Department at Staunton. He has two daughters of
high school age and a young son now about a year old.
Wilfred spends his summers at a boy’s camp near Hot
Springs. He lives at Fort Defiance, Virginia.

Robert Spencer Leonard has been connected with the
Tennessee Eastman Corporation as an accountant for the
past twenty years, and is at present assigned to a war plant
which they are operating under the name of Holston Ord-
nance Works—Tennessee Eastman Corporation. He is acting
in the capacity of Office Manager. Address: Box 428, Kings-
port, Tennessee.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Byron Browder is now a First Lieutenant in the Quarter-
master Corps attached to the Air Force. He has been in the
Army since July 1942—enlisted as a private, went through
Air Corps Photo School at Denver, then to OCS. Home:
101 Belvoir Avenue, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

William E. Neblett, Class Agent for 1922-Law, is practic-
ing law in Lunenburg, Virginia.

Joe L. Silverstein is practicing law in the Charleston
National Bank Building, Charleston, West Virginia. He says
it might interest W. & L. men to know that in his home town
they have Washington and Lee men sitting on the Supreme
Court of West Virginia, a Judge of the Intermediate Court,
a Judge of the Circuit Court, a Mayor, a Prosecuting Attor-
ney, a Candidate for Governor on the Republican ticket with
his opponent a candidate for Governor on the Democratic
ticket from a neighboring town of Beckley. In addition to
practicing law, Joe operates a short line railroad in Tennessee
and lends some assistance to the operation of the Midwest
Steel Corporation. He has two children, a son, W. & L,. °47,
in the Navy, and a daughter.

R. Bleakley James went to New Orleans with the ex-
pectation of taking up his residence there, but finding no
suitable living quarters, he has returned to Virginia and is
now at his former address, 930 N. Irving Street, Arlington,
Virginia.

1923

Joe Long says outside of trying to help various war-
working clients over the hump, his principal contribution to
the war effort is serving as a Major in the Missouri State
Guard and trying to command the Third Battalion, First
Missouri Infantry. So far the only enemy they have had to
fight is the Missouri River, but they found it a foe worthy
of their steel. Both last year and this it exceeded 100 year
records, when it started its annual spring rise, so they learned
a bit about filling sandbags and how to load pigs and chickens
on trucks. He is still practicing law in St. Louis, Missouri.

Harry Maupin was in the service from May 1, 1942,
when he enlisted, until November, 1942, “when the Army
decided they could win the war without we decrepid souls.”
He is now with the Wage and Hour Division of the U. S.
Department of Labor as an Inspector.

Lt. J. B. Holloway is head of the Chaplain’s Department
of the Amphibious Training Base, Camp Bradford, N.O.B.,
Norfolk, Virginia. He is on leave of absence from his pastorate
in the Trinity Baptist Church, Marion, Ohio. He has a son
in the Air Corps and a daughter who is a senior in high school.

Capt. Raymond Wickersham is a Chaplain in the Navy
on one of our largest transports. He has four children, three
girls and a boy. Home address: 123 W. Beach Road, Pass
Christian, Mississippi.

Lieut. Col. William H. Hampton has been in the service

more than three years. He is now based in Italy.

Lieut. Com’dr. Jake Greiner is located in the Pentagon
Building, Washington, D. C.

Lieut. Com’dr. Herb Elias had practiced pediatrics in
Rockville Center before entering the Army. He is now in
California. He has one wife and two boys.

Lt. Col. Andrew H. Harriss, Jr., (‘“Logger” to you), is
now Post Commander of a large post and his APO number

is 868, c/o Postmaster, Miami, Florida. He was married in
June 1943, to a girl from Silver Springs, Maryland. Home
address 9600 Riley Place, Silver Springs, Maryland.

Capt. Thomas Jean Ellis, after practicing law approxi-
mately 20 years, settled down on a farm in Florida and opened
an office in Tallahassee. He was commissioned in the Army
in September °42; served most of 43 on various duties in the
Pacific; and is now assistant staff judge advocate of his
command. He has three boys, aged 12, 14 and 15, who are
growing up rapidly.

Capt. Randolph Dillon, who was manufacturing scales in
Washington, D. C., turned the factory over to his brother in
1942 and volunteered his services to the Army Air Forces;
was commissioned a first lieutenant, and is now a captain.
He is now located at a War Plant in Hagerstown, Maryland.

J. G. Ragsdale is practicing law in El Dorado, Arkansas,
and serving as Municipal Judge of that city. He is married
and has two children, both boys, John, the older, is nineteen
and is now in his junior year in engineering at the University
of Arkansas. Bob, the younger, is sixteen and is now in Se-
wanee Military Academy.

Frank Fisher of Sutton, West Virginia, enlisted in the Sea
Bees in December, 1942. When last heard from he was in
Alaska.

Lidell Peck is now out of the motion picture industry and
is busy looking after his ranches in California—one a large
dairy in the South Central Valley—another a prune ranch in
Northern California, and another a cattle ranch just outside

 

 

4

Lt. F. B. Rowe, °44
(See Class Note)

 

[ 23 |

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Yosemite Valley. He is employed by the U. S. Maritime Com-
mission to handle Industrial and Labor Relations. Reports
having seen Lt. William Manley of Lynchburg, who was on
his way to the South Pacific.

Bill Hellier reports that he is still at the same stand in
Birmingham, Alabama, but gives no further news of himself.

1924
(Notes written by Class Agent)

Randolph G. Whittle, Class Agent for 1924-L, has his law
offices in The Boxley Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He is
married and has three children, two boys and a girl.

Baynard Lawtcn Malone, Jr., is practicing law again at
505 Florida National Bank Building, St. Petersburg, Florida,
after an interval of being in defense work. His eldest boy,
Baynard, III, finished High School in June and expected to
go into the Army. He has two younger boys.

Charlie Barrett, Lt. Col. and Inspector General of the
82nd Airborne Division, probably has been as much in the
midst of things as any member of our Class, since the news-
papers say his division opened the Invasion of France. The
papers also named this division as being the victim of anti-
aircraft fire of some of our men in the Sicilian Invasion. A
letter from Charlie before the Sicilian Invasion indicated that
he had noted many V.M.I. men around.

Lt. Col. Kay Thomas at last reports was still with a
Liberator group in Italy.

A Christmas card came airmail from Lt. Col. Jim Seals in
India.

Lt. Comdr. Jerry Long is presumably still one of the Navy
surgeons in the Pacific.

Capt. Buck Avis is still with the Signal Corps in Wash-
ington in which he has been introduced to astonishing secret
equipment and interesting activity.

Lt. Vickers Watts still classes himself as an army farmer
or engineer in Oklahoma. Some of your Agent’s information
on men in service is not too recent but at last reports Sgt.
“Red” Turner Merritt was corralling German prisoners in
Alabama.

Capt. Bill Erwin had charge of Negro troops in Texas.

Major William Samuel Gay was instructing at V. P. L.
and Naval Lt. John Hendon had been transferred from his
job of teaching navigation at Pensacola.

We have no news of the whereabouts or activities of Lt.
Col. Frank Switzer or Naval Lt. Cleave Milair.

J. Hampton Price, with his attractive wife, was a visitor
on the campus in August. He is serving his fourth term as
President Pro-tem of the North Carolina Senate. His home
is in Leaksville, North Carolina.

Lt. Comdr. Joe McMath was at St. Thomas College in
St. Paul, Minnesota.
1925

(Notes written by Bruce F. Gannaway, Class Agent, 1925-A)
Abe Goodman is the proud papa of two daughters; Patricia

Carol, born October 13, 1935, and Diane Bobye, born October
27, 1939. Abe is still in Memphis, and doing fine.

Lt. George T. Clark, Jr., U.S.N.R., is still attached to the
Naval Air Station, Miami, Florida, as assistant yard officer.
Expects a change of duty to another station in the near
future. Address P. O. Box 1069, Miami, Florida.

E. Morris Abernathy is doing Red Cross work, covering
two Army camps, one prisoner of war camp and six Navy
stations, four of which are auxiliary air fields, out of Camp
Pendleton, Virginia. He gets away occasionally to his farm
in Brunswick County, Virginia, for some bird shooting.

Bill Brock, still busily engaged in the candy business in
Chattanooga, writes in haste that he is leaving town; has
three boys, 14-12-2, and one wife. I don’t see why that should
make Bill leave town, but with all the candy he has, he should
have no difficulty in providing “peace offerings.”

Frank Bowers is ‘Treasurer and General Manager of the
Drexel Knitting Mills Company, Drexel, North Carolina.
They make 2,500 dozen pairs of men’s hose daily. We'll have
to get Frank to take an hour and make 20th anniversary hose
for the members of our Class. (I hope we can have that
reunion next June). Frank has a daughter, born on Christmas
Day, 1942.

E. S. Mattingly is now Treasurer at W. & L. “Matt” has
our sympathies with the trying problems that must be facing
him continually. He said he is one year older, but feels like
it must be one hundred times that. Let’s hope that it won't
last much longer.

Curtis Langhorne is now a full professor in Psychology
at Emory University, and Chairman of the Department. The
V-12 and V-5 programs have given him “fits,” but he can
take it, because in February he became the proud father of
an eight and one-fourth pound boy.

“Bill” Woolfolk and his family were through Jacksonville
some time ago and I had a nice little visit with them. He is
still an eye, ear, nose, and throat specialist in Owensboro,
Kentucky. Those wavy locks that Bill used to have at W.
and lL, have come out “by the roots,” but he’s put on a lot of
good weight to make him handsome despite his thinner “roof.”

William A. McRitchie, Class Agent for Law 1925, is Trust
Officer, Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 140 Broad-
way, New York. He has three children, two boys and a girl.

“Red” Renolds is a lumber buyer, and now lives in Tusca-
loosa, representing the Wilkinson Company, Inc., of Indian-
apolis. “Red” has two children. Charlotte Louise, born No-
vember 19, 1935, and William Jerome, born November 10,
1940.

1926

(Notes written by Thomas Foley, Class Agent)

John T. Martin says he isn’t a good typist, and we believe
him too. He is with duPont in Wilmington, Delaware, and
his address there is 13063 duPont Building.

Andrew A. Payne is now Vice-President of the Central
Trust Company of Charleston, West Virginia, having been
with that institution since 1937. Mail addressed to “Andy”
care of Central Trust Company will reach him.

William R. (Bill) Marchman is with Planters Cotton
Warehouse at Fort Valley, Georgia. Having spent eleven
years in China he anticpates returning after the destruction
of Tokyo but is hopeful of making the class reunion in 1946
beforehand—you’re going to be pressed for time, Bill.

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Rev. Wm. C. (Bill) Baxter is pastor of St. Bartholomew’s
Church in White Plains, New York, at 73 Prospect Street.
He wants you New York Alumni to put him on your mailing
list for the annual Alumni Dinner. Bill was Dean of the
Cathedral in Manila, having left there just before “Pearl
Harbor” to return to the States.

Major Robert W. Moore is now training for redistribution
at the Army Air Forces Redistribution Station No. 2, Miami
Beach, Florida after serving in the Adjutant General depart-
ment of an air force unit for two years in the European theater
of operations. Home address: care of H. C. Moore, 775 Oak
Street, Columbus, Ohio.

Commander James Newton Williams, M.C., U.S.N.R.,
returned to this country in August, 1944, after two and a half
years duty at a Base Hospital in the United Kingdom.

John C. Morrison has practiced law continuously since
1925, with the firm of Brown, Jackson and Knight, in Charles-
ton, West Virginia. He has one son, John C. Morrison, III,
but is raising two nephews, sons of his late brother, Dudley
B. Morrison. In 1942 he was elected to the State Senate from
Kanawha County on the Republican ticket for a four year
term and will serve again at the regular session in January
1945. Goodridge Sale, ’24, and Homer Holt, ’18, are members
of the same law firm.

1927

Lt. Comdr. Allen Harris, Jr., USNR, has traveled exten-
sively since going on sea duty in July, 1942, having been in
Newfoundland, convoy trips aboard destroyers to Africa and
Scotland, and now the Pacific for over fourteen months. He
says that W. and L. is kept pretty much alive on his destroyer
since Fred Shellabarger, '40, is communications officer.

J. Arthur Smith, Jr., volunteered in the Army, October
1942, under the Volunteer Officer Candidate set-up, and after
seven months in the service was discharged and returned
home. He is now Special Agent, Prudential Insurance Com-
pany, Monroe, Louisiana.

Perry Moses, Jr., is back in the insurance business in
Sumter, South Carolina, after having spent five months in
the Coast Guard.

Kenneth A. Durham formerly of the Davenport Hosiery
Mills, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, is now President of
Rollins Hosiery Mills, Inc., Des Moines, Lowa.

George F. Maynard, Class Agent for 1927-L is a member
of the law firm of Maynard, Fitzgerald & Maynard, Clarks-
dale, Mississippi.

1928

Captain Lester A. Brown is with the medical corps in
England, still doing his civilian specialty which is Ear, Nose
and Throat, and since the opening of the second front, many
other things pertaining to the immediate need. He has been
elected godfather in a good English family and regrets that
he does not have a picture of the godson to send us.

Stuard A. Wurzburger has been Labor Relations Officer
of the New York Ordnance District—War Department—for
the past three years. Home address: 205 E. 78th Street, New
York 21, New York.

Philip D. Sprouse’s letter came via diplomatic pouch from
the American Embassy, postmarked “Chungking, China.”
His address is Care Department of State, Washington, D. C.

 

2nd Lt. Leon Harris, Jr., *44
(See Class Note)

 

William J. Luria says the only news he can report is the
birth of a daughter, Anne Helen, on June 8th, 1944. He asks
that his address be changed to No. 6 Fisher Road, Abington
Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.

Promotion to Lieutenant-Colonel of Arthur P. Bondurant,
chief of the Theatre branch, Overseas Supply Section, was
recently announced at the Air Technical Service Command,
Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio. Col. Bondurant, as chief of the
branch, has responsibility for certain phases of ATSC sup-
ply in all overseas depots, covering both Pacific and At-
lantic theatres of operations. He recently returned from a
45,000 mile flight around the world, visiting ATSC and other
AAF installations in all theatres of operations. During this
trip, Col. Bondurant met and conferred with AAF and allied
commanding officers in various sections, including Lord
Louis Mountbatten, Maj. Gen. Claire Chennault, Lt. Gen.
Kenny, Gen. Douglas MacArthur, and others. Before enter-
ing the service he was advertising director for Glenmore
Distilleries, Louisville, Kentucky.

1929

James A. Castner has recently been promoted to the rank
of Major as announced by the Sixth Air Force Bomber
Command Headquarters. He entered the service in June,
1942, with the rank of First Lieutenant, and has been on
duty with the Sixth Air Force in Panama since April 1943.
Home: 188 New Street, Belleville, New Jersey.

Henry P. Johnston is Vice-President and General Manager
of WSGN, The News-Age-Herald Station, Birmingham,
Alabama, a position which he has held for seven years. For
the past three years he has been on the Blue Network Plan-
ning and Advisory Committee; is serving for the second
year on the Board of Directors of the Planters and Merchants
Bank of Uniontown, Alabama; and has completed two years

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Code Com-

on the National Association of Broadcasters,
mittee and one year on the Labor Committee.

William A. MacDonough has been covering naval air
stations and gunnery schools as a civilian specialist on visual
training. He has a son “Jack,” born December 7, 1943 and a
little girl three vears old. He says he is up to his neck in slide
films and motion pictures. His present job is to supervise
recording.

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., has been instructing pre-flight classes
in high schools and Civil Air Patrol Cadets in Shreveport,
Louisiana, also in the Army Secondary Flight School at
Monroe, Louisiana, and is now in Lafayette, Louisiana, teach-
ing Aerology and Civil Air Regulations in the Elementary
Flight Stage of the Navy V-5 Program. Home: 736 Elm-
wood, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Philip R. Becker, Class Agent for Law ’29, is a member
of the law firm of Coolidge & Becker, Twelfth Floor, Callahan
Building, Dayton, Ohio.

Lt. (j.g-) John Bell Towill was commissioned April 13,
1942. Home: Augusta, Georgia.

Walter H. Bosserman was promoted to the rank of
Captain in ceremonics commemorating a year’s operation of
the Adriatic Depot in Italy. The Depot, to which Captain
Bosserman is assigned as Petroleum Officer, is a part of the
AAF Service Command, MTO. He has been overseas since
August, 1943. His home is in Winchester, Virginia.

Richard P. Carter is Editor of the World-News, Roanoke,
Virginia; president of the National Council on Professional
Kducation for Journalism; chairman of the Post-War Plan-
ning Committee of the Virginia Press Association; and
chairman of the Schools of Journalism Committee of the
Southern Newspaper Publishers Association. He was pre-
sented with “Distinguished Service Awards” by the Virginia
Press Association for editorial “Leadership” for the years
1942 and 1943.

1930

Lt. James R. Roberts, U. S. Navy, had been overseas
eighteen months in June, 1944. He is a communications officer.
Home address: Clayton Road, Scarsdale, New York.

Arthur G. Glasgow, who received the honorary degree of
Dr. of Science from Washington and Lee in 1930, is a gener-
ous and faithful adopted alumnus. Mr. Glasgow, who was in
business in London, England, for many years, is now retired
and living in this country.

Captain Willis Van Gilbert, U. S. A., is now serving
overseas. His home is in Athens, Alabama.

Senatorial
103 Con-

Mosby Perrow, Jr., represents the ‘Twelfth
District in the Virginia Senate. His address is
necticut Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Lt. Col. Medford G. Ramey, Director of the Third Service
Command Special Service Division, has been awarded a
Certificate of Commendation for his work from May ’41
until June, 44 as Security and Intelligence Officer for Fort
Story, Virginia.

1931
(Notes written by Frank Bready, Class Agent)

Al Weinberg’s was the first contribution received by the
class of ’31 in this years Alumni Fund campaign. He has been

in the Real Estate business in Washington, D. C. but advised
early in March he expected to enter the Army.

David N. Conn is States Attorney for Randolph County,
Chester, Illinois. Dave has three children and writes he is
entering the Navy on a special assignment.

Robert J. Thrift, Jr., is assistant prosecuting attorney for
Fayette County, Fayetteville, West Virginia, a Democratic
candidate for Judge in the May elections, may join the Army
shortly, has a daughter eight and a son, Bob, Jr., who at the
age of six is already looking forward to entering W. and L,.

Captain Gilmore Nunn, U.S. Army, is at present stationed
in India.

Chandler W. Gordan, 25 Linden Avenue, Asheville, North
Carolina is in the lumber business and has two very active
children, Tommy, 6, and Lynda Sue, 4.

Herb Winston is a machine designer for the Elastic Stop
Nut Corporation at Union, New Jersey.

William B. Hill, Box 174, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
has a law degree from the University of Virginia, has prac-
ticed law, been a gentleman farmer, was on the staff of the
Memphis Commercial Appeal, and at present is studying for
an M.A. in Education and History at- North Carolina Uni-
versity.

Frank Hanna and Mrs. Frank Hanna of St. Joseph,
Missouri, visited Lexington in January and write enthusias-
tically of the physical improvements made since °31 in the
buildings on the campus. Frank is in the Real Estate and
insurance business.

Edgar Church, 1728 York Avenue. Memphis, Tennessee,
sidetracked his law practice for the duration to help build
B-25 bombers.

Leonard C. Borland, D.D.S., is married and practicing
dentistry in Oak Park, Illinois.

Lt. Walter S. Wurzburger, Army Air Force Ordnance
has been stationed in China with the 14th Air Force, com-
manded by General Chennault. Along with his contribution
he sent $10.00 in Chinese money with the notation that it
takes seven more of the same to buy one cup of tea. Home:
225 West 86th Street, New York, New York.

Lt. Harold M. Weston has been overseas since June 1943,
with troops in Africa and Sicily and later in Italy. He was
cited in November °43 for Counter-Intelligence work relating
to the security of a port. Home: 225 Central Park West, New
York, New York.

Daniel Sherby is still living at 2020 West Third Street in
Cleveland. Dan has two young daughters. He is running the
Yellow Cab Company in Cleveland.

Herbert Winston is living at 54 Shadowlawn in Madison,
New Jersey.
1932

Yeoman Ist Class Charles F. Richardson, U.S.N.R., is on
duty in the Pacific. His ship has been on a couple of invasions
and has done its share of convoy and patrol duty. Home: 706
ast Fourth Street, El Dorado, Arkansas.

Jackson Savage is practicing law in Charleston, West
Virginia. He has two children, Becky Lou, 14, being a native

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of Lexington, Virginia, where she was born when her father
was a student at Washington and Lee; and a boy 7. In a
previous issue of the Magazine we erroneously reported Mr.
Savage as being in the Navy, for which we apologize.

Lt. Charles A. Davidson, U. S.

Home: Lexington, Virginia.

Navy, is now overseas.

Frank S. Cunningham has had an Honorary Membership
conferred on him by the Eugene Field Society, National Asso-
ciation of Authors and Journalists, “in recognition of his
outstanding contribution to contemporary literature.” Mr.
Cunningham is the author of the biography of Donald
Douglas, “Sky Master’ which has been termed by the press
nationally as outstanding in the field of aviation literature.
With its National Headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri, the
Eugene Field Society was organized in 1937 to perpetuate
the name of the great writer Eugene Field.

1933

Henry M. Bandy, Jr., is now a Lieutenant, senior grade.
He was in active duty with the Gilbert Islands force; also
with the Marshall Islands force. He has since been detached
from his ship to teach “Naval Law” in the war college at
Newport, Rhode Island. He expects to soon be on a new ship
about to be commissioned.

William F. Symonds was elected secretary of the W. D.
Allen Manufacturing Company, of Chicago, Illinois, last
January. He has been kept out of the war by a bad ear trouble.
He is secretary of the Washington and Lee Alumni Chapter
of Chicago. Home: 1040 Judson Street, Evanston, Illinois.

Henry Foote, Jr., is Vice-President and Manager of the
H. D. Foote Lumber Company of Alexandria, Louisiana. He
reports many headaches incident to trying to run four saw-
mills and one concentration with half a crew of workmen.

Reports the birth of a daughter (Betsy) to add to his family .

of three fine sons. He says “Three Jacks and a Queen is a
pretty hard hand to beat.”

Henry F. Arnold is Editor and Publisher of the Cullman
Tribune, Cullman, Alabama. He is Chairman of the Com-
mittee for Economic Development in Cullman County, Sec-
retary of the local Red Cross Chapter, and Chairman of the
Republican party in Cullman County.

Lt. George F. Parsons is with N.O.P.E. Water Divisions,
New Orleans, Louisiana. His home is at Capeville, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Cromwell Thomas is in training with an Air
Ferry Squadron. Home: 149 Page Street, Kingston, Penn-
sylvania.

Cavett Robert is still practicing law in Phoenix, Arizona.
He has a daughter six years old and a son three.

1934
(Notes written by Class Agent)

Foster Palmer is still at the Harvard Library. He and his
wife celebrated their fifth wedding anniversary in August

1943.

Samuel L. Clark has been promoted from Ist Lieutenant
to Captain. He is assistant judge advocate at an Eighth Air
Force Fortress station in England. Home address: 406 Ruff-
ner Avenue, Charleston, West Virginia.

_

&
/
;
F
-
'
;
;
:

    

 

ee . ees

 

Paul Haynes Cagle, ’47, was killed in action, September 5,
1944. He was a volunteer ambulance driver with an Amer-
ican Field Service Unit attached to the British Eighth
Army in Italy.

 

Farrar Newberry is State Manager for the Woodmen of
the World Life Insurance Society for South Carolina. His
home is in Columbia, South Carolina.

Norwood Band is pastor of the Park Congregational
Church in Philadelphia. He has two sons, Woody and George,
six and four vears old respectively.

John Thomas is Treasurer and General Manager of the
Elk Grocery Company in Charleston, West Virginia. He has
a young daughter Julia Thomas.

1935

Cpl. Leonard L. Harvey, when last heard from, was in
combat duty in New Guinea. Home: 709 Prince Street,
Alexandria, Virginia.

David S. MacDonald, Jr., Durant, Oklahoma, lost his
father and an uncle both W. and L. graduates, with whom
he was practicing law in 1939, and had to carry on their busi-
ness as well as his own. Now he has gone into politics and
may carry his uncle’s load in the state senate. He is running
for the state senate and fighting a big organization.

[ 27 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Ed Chappell is still with the duPont Company in Martins-
ville, Virginia, where they are engaged in the manufacture of
Nylon used 100 per cent for the war effort, mainly in para-
chutes, airplane tires, glider tow ropes and other uses where
a strong durable thread is needed.

William Howard Alexander has been a Special Agent
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the past three
years. He has worked in Oklahoma, Indiana and Virginia.
Has been stationed in Washington, D. C. at F.B.I. Adminis-
trative Headquarters for some time. He is married and his
address is 4707 Piney Branch Road, N.W.. Washington 11,
hn

1936

Dexter M. Bates, 9 Claremont Place, Cranford. New
Jersey, has been promoted to the rank of first lieutenant. He
is an Army Transportation Corps officer now serving in the
Water Division at the San Francisco Port.

Lt. W. M. Drake was with an LCT-Flotilla at Tulagi
for awhile and over a year ago went to New Caledonia, in a
hospital ship—(not a casualty, but a jaundice patient). He
was at Tarawa and Kwajalein, being on a ship however he
didn’t go ashore—just carried the troops that did. In his
travels he has met many Washington and Lee men.

John Renken, Jr., after several months in England, is now
in France. He is serving as a warrant officer. Home address:
Nanuet, New York.

Lt. Fletcher Fitzgerald Maynard has been Legal Officer
at the Naval Air Station Fort Lauderdale, Florida where he
has been for eighteen months. His wife, the former Anne M.
Dashiell of Memphis, Tennessee, and little daughter, Sue,
are with him at his post. Home address: 515 First Street.
Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Capt. Jacob S. Seligman is still Assistant Finance Officer
of the 103rd Infantry Division.

Anders R. Lofstrand is General Manager of the Lofstrand
Company, Silver Springs, Maryland. His company recently
received’ the Army-Navy Production Award. The outstand-
ing basis for the award was the production of Chain Saw
Sharpeners, which the company makes for the Army. Mr.
Lofstrand is an engineer and inventor and holds patents on
fifteen different inventions. Home: Dale Drive, Silver Springs,
Maryland.

1937

Stanley Higgins had been in the Navy for eighteen months
when his class letter was written in May and was eager to
go to sea.

Lt. (j.g.) Jim McClure, Jr., had been gunnery officer on
his ship for eight months when his letter was written in
May and had recently been made Assistant Navigator. He
has been a sailor since July 1942. He says the oceans are
bigger than you would think from looking at the map. He is
married and has two sons.

Lt. (j.g.) John Addington Wagner, Jr., has passed through
various training schools, was finally spotted as a prospective
commanding officer for Landing Craft, Infantry-Large, and
expected to be in a combat zone before long, when his letter
was written in May. He is married and has a son a year old.

George W. Lowry is in the Marine Corps. Home address:
224 §. Clinton Street, Clinton, Oklahoma.

Albert Lustbader has been in the service since October
3, 1941, and is now a Technical Sergeant. He is now in the
Office of The Post Legal Assistance Officer, Jefferson Bar-
racks, Missouri. Home address: 220 Corbin Place, Brooklyn,
New York.

John C. Neely, in addition to a full-time position with the
Internal Revenue Bureau, has been attending the University
of Southern California Law School night sessions during the
past two years. He expected to be inducted into the service
shortly after his letter was written in April. His home is in
Fairmont, West Virginia.

Wiliam C. Dwiggins of the first marine amphibious corps
has been promoted to the rank of Captain. At the time of his
promotion he was stationed at Tinian in the Marianas Islands.
Home address: 30 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York.

1938

Paul M. Miller is a Captain in the U. S. Marine Corps. He
has been overseas for some time.

Captain Oscar J. Deavours served as an enlisted man for
thirteen months. He returned to the United States in March
of this year after serving in the Southwest Pacific for sixteen
months, seeing action at Guadalcanal, the New Hebrides,
Munda and Bougainville. He wears the Presidential Unit
citation ribbon with two stars. Home: 161 S. Sycamore
Avenue, Los Angeles, California.

Lt. Thomas Hart Baker received his M.D. degree from
Tulane University School of Medicine and interned at the
Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles, California.
He has been with the Army Medical Corps since August 21,
1943, and in the Pacific Area since October, 1943. Home: 221
St. Andrews Terrace, West Helena, Arkansas.

Charlie Skinner is a Lieutenant in the Army Air Force.
Home: 509 Glade Street, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Lt. Langdon L. Skarda, now in this country, has been
a combat intelligence officer in the European theater for eight
months. His home address is care of A. W. Skarda, Clovis.
New Mexico.

Lt. Fred E. Waters, Jr., is a navigator of a B-24 bomber
in the Fifteenth Air Force and just recently completed his
tour of duty having flown fifty missions against the enemy in
northern Italy, Austria, Germany, France, Hungary, Yugo-
slavia and Romania. He has received the Air Medal with three
clusters, and two stars on the Mediterranean Theater Ribbon.
representing participation in the successful capture of Rome
and the victorious invasion of southern France. Home: 205
Liberty Street, Milledgeville, Georgia.

George F. Bauer has been overseas for some time, spend-
ing three months in London, where the robot planes kept
them on the ball. Home: 503 Riverside Drive, Sistersville,
West Virginia.

Lt. David Wesley Heath was back in this country in
October for reassignment processing after completing a tour
of duty outside the continental United States. He was a
pilot in the Mediterranean area for one year and flew on
sixty-four missions. He holds the Air Medal with seven oak
leaf clusters. Home: 708 15th Street, Bedford, Indiana.

Lt. Frank F. Frazier enlisted in Naval Aviation in January,
1941, trained at Pensacola and Miami, receiving his wings at

[ 28 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the latter place. Instructor’s school at Corpus Christi, Texas;
instructed Primary for six months; selected for primary
Instructors School, where he trained flyers to become In-
structors; then advanced to Basic Instructors School, train-
ing flyers to become Instructors on large ships; to Ft. Lauder-
dale for torpedo bomber instructors, and then to West Coast
for further training. He has been on overseas duty for several
months. Home address: 1620 Ridge Avenue, Evanston,
[llinois.

1939

Lt. (j.g.) Bruce Seddon, Jr., enlisted in 1939 as an appren-
tice seaman in the Naval Reserve. By the usual stages he has
arrived at his present status. He has been stationed in Eng-
land since February, 1944. On first reporting abroad he was
made communications officer and in April was made the
navigator of his ship. Home address: “Montrose,” Nuroad
Post Office, Missouri.

Cpl. Wm. Henry Baldock has been outside the United
States for some time. Was first in England, and now in
France serving as a Classification Specialist with the Army
Air Forces. Home: Route 4, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Capt. R. T. Crawford is now a Captain in the U. S. Marine
Corps. He was in the first U. S. offensive in the Solomon
Islands, later was intelligence officer on the Colonel's staff in
Guadalcanal. Home: 120 Oak Crest, Decatur, Illinois.

Lt. Richard E. Clements, Jr., Army Air Corps, as a B-24
bombardier, flew 47 missions during 16 months in India. He
was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross with one oak
leaf cluster, and the Air Medal with one cluster. He returned
to the States in August for reassignment. Home: 1122 Douglas
Court, Waukegan, Illinois.

Donald B. Houghton is an instructor in Mathematics at
Princeton University, teaching in both the ASTP and the
Navy programs. He is married and has two sons. Home
address: 26 Edwards Place, Princeton, New Jersey.

1940

Major C. Pell Lewis, Jr., U.S.M.C., was a recent visitor
to the campus. He was accompanied by his bride, the former
Margaret Seaks of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. They were

married September 30, 1944. Casey enlisted in the Marines in_

November 1940, and has been overseas for twenty-six months.
He saw plenty of action on Guadalcanal, Tinian, Tarawa and
Saipan. Decorations: Purple Heart and Presidential Unit
Citation.

1941

Ensign J. T. Perry, U.S.N.R., graduated from the Naval
Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Texas, and was com-
missioned an ensign. He was back in this country in August,
1944, after flying in South America. Home: 701 Franklin
Avenue, Lexington, Kentucky.

Lt. James B. Richardson, immediately following gradua-
tion, was sworn into the Army and was with the Finance
Department in San Juan, Puerto Rico for eight months. He
returned to the United States to enter Officers’ Candidate
School and graduated as a Quartermaster Officer. In January
43, he transferred to the Army Air Corps and after com-
pleting training, received both the Navigator and Bombardier
wings. He flew the longest of all bombing raids on August
10, °44, to Sumatra and participated in the daylight raid on

Japan on August 20, 44. He wears a three-year service stripe.
He was married January 29, 1944, to Donna Haley. Home
address: 834 Westover Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.

Bayard S. Berghaus is now a Captain in the U. S. Marine
Corps. He was a member of the First Division of the Fleet
Marine Force which made the initial landing on Guadalcanal
in the first wave of the invasion August 7, 1942. Was severely
wounded and went back on active duty July 2, 1943. He
wears the Purple Heart, Asiatic Campaign, Presidential Cita-
tion and Home Defense Medals. Home: 209 E. Market Street,
Marietta, Pennsylvania.

Lt. Joseph T. Lykes, Jr., U.S.N., has been on sea duty
since May, 1942. Home: 631 Esplanade, Pelham Manor, New
York.

Lt. (j.g.) Charles Lee Hobson is now with the Pacific
Fleet. His duties are Gunnery Officer and Officer of Deck.
Home: 219 Shelby Street, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Major Edwin H. Bodenheim, Army Air Forces, was at
Soca Raton Field, Florida, as a member of the staff of
Brigadier General Arnold H. Krogstad, U.S.A., in June, 1944.
He is now at Command and General Staff School at Ft.
Leavenworth, Kansas.

Bill Shannon has been an instructor of Army Aircrew
Students at Davidson College. He expects to return to his
home in Shelbyville, Kentucky, soon.

Ralph E. Keehn has been promoted from the grade of
Captain to that of Major at Headquarters Tenth Air Force,
Home address: 158 Chicago Street, Valparaiso, Indiana.

 

 

Ensign R. E. (Pinkey) Norman, 45
Recently commissioned as a pilot in the U.S. Naval Reserve

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

lst Lt. James D. Taylor, pilot of a B-17 Flying Fortress
of the 95th Bombardment Group, has been awarded the
Second Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal for “meritorious
achievement” while participating in bombing attacks on vital
German industrial targets. He is a member of the Fortress
group which led the first American bombing attack on targets
in Berlin, which has had a number of citations. Home address:
3814 Fort Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Walter J. Wilkins, Jr., finished his course at the Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine last August and re-
ceived his degree of Doctor of Medicine as well as his com-
mission as First Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Medical Corps
Reserve. He is now on inactive duty with the army while
serving an internship at the Jefferson Hospital in Roanoke,
Virginia. Home address: Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

1942

Lt. Harold R. Levy, U. S. Army—Infantry—is now in
foreign service. Home: 929 Bellevue Avenue, Trenton, New
Jersey.

Lt. (j.g.) Charles F. Reichhardt, Jr., is a signal officer on
board a cruiser in the South Pacific and has been out of the
country for approximately fifteen months.

Lt. (j.g.) F. L. LaMotte, Jr., was at home in August after
having been on the same cruiser for two years. Recently he
attended submarine school at New London, Connecticut and
will enter the submarine service.

Capt. W. M. Johnson is a navigator on a B-24 Liberator
assigned to groups operating overseas. This group has an
enviable record compiled during many months of activity,
starting with Rommel’s famous route to their present raids on
Germany. He has been awarded the Distinguished Flying
Cross, Air Medal, with six oak-leaf clusters, also wears the
EKuropean-African and Middle Eastern Ribbon. Home address:
Clover Hill Farm, Manassas, Virginia.

Cpl. Horace H. Jeter was at Camp Fannin, Texas, when
his letter was written in August. Home: 4534 Fairfield
Avenue, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Lt. J. S. Hunt is now in the Marine Air Corps flying Dive
bombers. Home: 4305 Beverly, Dallas, Texas.

lst Lt. Joseph Allen Overton is an Army Air Force Bom-
bardier. Home: 1320 Seventh Street, Parkesrburg, West
Virginia.

T/S Robert Wersel now has an overseas address. Home:
3853 Middleton Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Grady H. Forgy, Jr., is now a Lieutenant, with an overseas
address. Home: 1015 North Beech Street, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

William Atlee has reported to Colgate University for
training in the Navy Academic Refresher Unit (V-7). The men
entering this unit were assigned direct from the fleet after
showing officer aptitude. He has been appointed platoon
leader for his company holding a rating of quartermaster
second class. He will take sixteen weeks of work at Colgate
before entering a midshipman’s school. Home: 1496 Alabama
Drive, Winter Park, Florida.

lst Lt. Robert J. Murray is now on duty as assistant to
the medical supply officer at the Los Angeles Port of Em-
barkation. Home: 2630 39th Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Carter Glass, III, U.S.A.A.F., has been promoted to
lieutenant-colonel at his post in the European Theater of
Operations. He received his commission as a second-lieu-
tenant at Scott Field, Illinois, January 22, 1942. In July of
that year he was promoted to first lieutenant at his station in
Africa. Later he was made captain and on June 5, 1943, was
promoted to major. Home address: care of Major Carter
Glass, Fort Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Robert A. Lawton was commissioned at Notre
Dame, January 28, 1943. He is now on a destroyer in the
Pacific. He was married in October ’43. Home: Central City,
Kentucky.

Edmund Schaefer, III, is associated with the law firm of
Kdmunds, Whitehead, Baldwin and Graves, Krise Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) Oliver H. Ward is now serving overseas. Home
address: 1625 Quarrier Street, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lt. (j.g.) R. D. Gage, III, is now serving on a Destroyer
overseas. Home: Port Gibson, Mississippi.

Richard T. Wright, son of alumnus Willis Bayard Wright,
20, former sports editor of The Ring-tum Phi, now foreign
service combat correspondent, is one of those making jour-
nalistic history in this war. At the outbreak of the war in
December, 1941, Dick Wright joined the Marine Corps.
where his special talents gained him ‘training as a “fighter
writer.” He was with the American forces at Guadalcanal and
at the follow-up engagements in the Solomon Islands. Since
transferred to the European theatre, Wright has been in
Africa and Italy, and was with the amphibious forces in the
second French invasion at a point where enemy resistance
was particularly stubborn, sending out some of the first news
of the invasion. Many of his stories have been carried in
leading American newspapers.

Lt. (j.g.) Felix Smart was home on leave a short time
ago and during his visit he became the proud father of a baby
daughter, Jane Cutting Smart. Felix is supply officer on a
destroyer in the Pacific and has already seen action in several
Pacific battles.

1943

Ist Lt. Emmett T. Drake was recently awarded the Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross for extraordinary achievement in
aerial flight against the enemy on a bombing mission over
the flak ringed fortress of Blechhammer, Germany. A first
pilot on a Liberator bomber in this theater, Drake has flown
fifty combat missions. It was over Blechhammer, however,
that he particularly distinguished himself by completing the
bombing run despite the impaired condition of his flak ridden
ship. After dumping his bombs squarely on the vital German
installations, Drake was forced to become a straggler and
was attacked by German fighters which were successfully
driven off by fire from his ship. Crash landing on a friendly
island, he later returned his crew safely to their home base.
As a key pilot Drake also holds the Air Medal with three
bronze Oak Leaf Clusters for meritorious achievement. in
aerial operations against the enemy. Home: Lawrence Lane,
Bayshore, New York.

John Hackney has reported to Colgate University for
training in the Naval Academic Refresher Unit (V-7). He
holds a rating of seaman, second class, and will take sixteen
weeks of work at Colgate before entering a midshipman’s
school. Home: 1333 Cornwall Place, Norfolk, Virginia.

[ 30 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Henry C. Keller is one of sixty-five men sent to Colgate
University for training in the second class of the Naval
Academic Refresher Unit (V-7) which opened in July as one
of three in the country. He will take eight weeks of work at
Colgate before entering a midshipman’s school. Home:
Spencerville, Maryland.

Second Lt. Joseph V. Hellen is in his final phase of train-
ing at a Marauder Base. He is a co-pilot on one of the famous
medium bombers that has played such havoc with German
defense. Home address: 802 Central Street, Plainfield, New
Jersey.

Sgt. Allen J. Sharitz was a patient on the U.S. Hospital
Ship Shamrock, when it docked at Charleston, South Carolina,
bringing men wounded in the invasion. Men from every state
in the Union were on board. They are now stationed at
Starke General Hospital, Charleston, where they are being
treated prior to being transferred to hospitals nearer home.

Lillard Ailor is now a Second Lieutenant in the Marine
Corps, stationed somewhere in the Pacific. Enroute to his
station he met Jim Wheaten and Pres Brown in Hawaii.

Second Lieutenant Edwin A. Zelnicker, Jr., has been
awarded the Air Medal for “courage, coolness and skill” dis-
played on bombing attacks over Nazi Europe. He is navi-
gator at the Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying Fortress Group.
Home: 253 Park ‘Terrace, Mobile, Alabama. His _ father,
Captain Edwin A. Zelnicker, completetd the November 8th
term of the Army School for Personnel Services, stationed at
Washington and Lee.

Samuel J. Graham has been promoted from Corporal to
Sergeant. He is a ball turret gunner and assistant radio oper-
ator of an Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying Fortress Group
engaged in the aerial offensive against Germany. Home ad-
dress: 2903 Bayswater Avenue, Far Rockaway, New York.

Pfc. E. H. Scherr, 3313 S.U.—A.S.T.U., Medical College
of Virginia. Home: 2506 Hanover Avenue, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

1944

Pvt. Cullen F. Wimmer served five months as a rifleman
in the European theatre of operations. While there he was
awarded the Purple Heart for wounds received in action and
the combat infantry badge. He was in this country in Sep-
tember being processed for reassignment.

Paul G. Cavaliere graduated as a Flight Officer at Selman
Field, Louisiana on September 4, 1944.

Ewing S. Humphreys, Jr., received his commission from
the Officer Candidate’s Class, Marine Corps School, Atlanta,
Georgia, as Second Lieutenant, in September, 1944. He is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ewing S. Humphreys, ’09, of 306
Beverly Road, Atlanta, Georgia.

Lt. Frederick Bengston Rowe graduated July 29, 1944,
from the Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, and
was. commissioned a lieutenant in the U. S. Marine Corps
Reserve. Home: 22 Johnson St., Waterbury 24, Connecticut.

“Edward C. Waddington was recently advanced to the
grade of Sergeant with a troop carrier group at an AUS
Troop Carrier Base in the European Theatre of Operations.

2nd Lt. Leon Harris, Jr., has graduated as a B-24 bomber
pilot at Fort Worth Army Air Field. Lt. Harris received

 

Flight Officer Robert Reid Agnor, Jr., 46, received his sil-
ver pilot wings at Blackland Army AirField, Waco, Texas

 

previous flight training at Hicks Field, Ft. Worth, Texas,
Perrin Field, Sherman, Texas, and Wellington Field, Houston,
Texas. He received his commission on May 23, 1944. Home:
1555 Edgewood Avenue, Anderson, South Carolina.

Dick Watson, after teaching during the spring at West-
town School, Westtown, Pensylvania, is now working for the
Missouri Geological Survey as a field geologist. His home
base is Rolla, a hundred and ten miles southwest of St. Louis.
His adress is 509 West 11th Street, Rolla, Missouri.

1945

2nd Lt. Roland C. (Judge) Rhea, navigator on a B-17
Flying Fortress, has been assigned to the 95th Bombardment
Group,and now is taking an orientation course on flying
procedure in the European Theatre of Operations, prior to
beginning combat duty in the air. The Eighth Air Force
Fortress led the first bombing attack on targets in Berlin,
and was cited by the President for outstanding work in a
bombing assault on railroad marshalling yards in Munster,
Germany, in October, 1943. Home address: 201 West 9th
Street, Russellville, Kentucky.

2nd Lt. John B. Atkins, Jr., has been awarded the Air
M.dal for “meritorious achievement while participating in
aerial flight.” He is a bombardier in a B-17 Flying Fortress.
He has been overseas for two months and has taken part in

[31]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

23 combat missions. Home: 3321 Centenary Boulevard,

Shreveport, Louisiana.

Dean B. Stewart, Jr., is a 2nd Lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps. He is a navigator on a B-24 Liberator bomber and
based in England. He is nearing the end of his combat mis-
sions and was recently awarded the Air Medal. Home: 138
W. Third Street, Oil City, Pennsylvania.

1946

Landon G. Robinson is in the Army Air Corps. He grad-
uated from George Field on February 8, 1944, as a Flight
Officer. His home is at Forest Hill Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Cpl. Edmund S&S. Willis is working with radio in the Army
Air Corps. Home address: Box 1066, Erie, Pennsylvania.

Howard C. Wilkins graduated from Notre Dame Mid-
shipman School on October 26, with the commission of En-
sign. He is now in San Francisco awaiting further orders.
Home address: Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

Pvt. Fred Holley, U. S. Army, Infantry, now in overseas
service, was slightly wounded in the hand, but is now back
in service.

1947

Pvt. John K. (Jack) Davidson, Jr., on furlough at his
home in Lexington in October, reported attending a colored
camp meeting held near Camp Fannin, Texas, where he has
been located, at which the music played during the taking
of the collection, was the Washington and Lee Swing.

Recent Visitors to the Campus

Ira M. Quillen, LL.B., ’24, paid a visit to the Alumni
Office in October. He was accompanied by his son, Steve,
who will be a member of the Class of 1955 at Washington
and Lee.

Major Charles Pell (Casey) Lewis, Jr., '40

Lt. Buster Kidd, °44

Cullen Wimmer, °44

Ens. Kenneth Coghill, °43

Sid Isenberg, *42

Capt. Richard Smith, °41

Jack Davidson, °47

S/Set. George Woolfenden, *42

Wm. Miller, °12

Joe Lykes, ’09

Jimmie Caskie, *06

Gil Gardner, *40

Bunny Humphries, ’09

Bates Bryan, °43

Lt. Cliff Hood, °44

Fran Russell, °43

Major Alman Coleman, °26

Houston Barclay, ’14

Lt. Hiram Smith, ’38

(Judge) F. M. Hudson, ’90

Lt. George Harry Vanta, B.S., °39

S. R. Gammon, A.B., ’11, M.A., °13

Lt. (j.g.) Harry Philpott, 38

Edwin H. Howard, ’24

Major Abram P. Somerville, ’08

Michael Brown, ‘11

Marriages

1915

Carl C. Wurzbach, to Byrdie Lee Whitesides, November
1, 1944, in San Antonio, Texas.

1932
Ensign Marion Wade MacDonald was married to Hepsa
Klizabeth Humphrey on October 28, 1944, in Chestnut Hill.
Pennsylvania.
1935
Lt. William P. Diggs was married to (Ensign) Eunice
Kristofa Nelson on May 10, 1944, at First Methodist Church,
Honolulu, T. H.
1937
Dr. Douglas W. Lund was married to Hazel Jean Tav-
ernetti on October 19, 1944, at the Church Divinity School
of the Pacific, Berkeley, California.

1938

_ it. (j.g-) John Edmonds Neill was married to Mary
Klizabeth Dousett of Scarsdale, New York, August 5, 1944.

Lt. Ernest Brown Walker, Jr., was married to Janet
Lowell on July 29, 1944, in the Chapel by the Tower at Fort
Monmouth, New Jersey.

1940

Lt. Hans Adolph Schmitt was married to Florence Arlene

Brandow on September 8, 1944, in Chicago, Illinois.

1941

Lt. Robert Neavling Sweeney was married to Marjorie
Gladys McIntire on October 14, 1944, at New Orleans,
Louisiana.

Lt. Emery Cox, Jr., was married to Mary Barbara Hebner
on Saturday, September 23, 1944,

1942

Walter Scott Gilmer was married to Winifred Virginia
Wilson on September 23, 1944, in Richmond, Virginia.

1943

Ensign John E. Zombro, Jr., was married to Hazel Mary
Green on August 19, 1944, in Needham, Massachusetts.

Corporal Bates William Bryan, U.S. Army, and Lt. (j.g.)
Helen Webster Anderson, U.S.N.R., in R. E. Lee Memorial
Kpiscopal Church, Lexington, Virginia, October 21, 1944.

William Cameron McLaren was married to Melissa An-
netta Freer on November 10, 1944, in Chicago, Illinois.

Joseph Tyler Bowie was
Warner Edwards on
Michigan.

married to Dorothy Susan
November 4, 1944, at Farmington,

1944
Lt. Samuel Clayton Williams, U. S. Army Air Force, to
Andree Louise Wood, August 29, 1944.

1945
Ensign William Robert Gaines, son of president and Mrs.
Francis P. Gaines, to Elizabeth Carrington Settle, on Octo-
ber 15, in the private chapel of the Rancho Santa Fe, now a
Naval convalescent hospital, at Del Mar, California.

1946

Thomas Hammond Mansel, 2nd Lieut., U. S. A. Air Corps,
to Anne Crooks Stearns.

[ 32 ]

Missing in Action

Lt. Carl Arenz, ’37, U.S. Army, missing in action in the Phil-
ippines (Cebu) since May 7, 1942.

Henry Parr Baker, ’42, Army Air Corps, reported missing in
action, February 28, 1944.

Lt. Walter Irving Chudleigh, Jr., 43, U.S. Army, reported
missing in action over Germany since March 16, 1944.

Midshipman Alan Robert Clarke, '44, reported missing when
ship was sunk in Russian bound convoy by Nazi sub-
marine, April, 1943.

Lt. Samuel Tilden Cleveland, Jr., °39, bombardier, reported
missing in the Solomon Islands battles, August 10, 1942.

Lt. William Alexander Miles Dabney, '42-I1,, Army Air Force,
reported missing in action since August 19, 1942.

Lt. Gene Frederick Drake ‘43, Army Air Force, reported
killed in plane accident, not confirmed.

Lt. Fred Fisher, 43, Army Air Force, reported missing in
action in Mediterranean area.

John Frost, II, °39, Army Air Force, reported missing in ac-
tion in the Pacific area since November 22, 1942.

Capt. Walter Russell Guthrie, 40, U.S. Army, missing since
the ship he was on was torpedoed off the island of Ceylon,
July 2, 1944.

Lt. John T. Kibler, Jr., '45, Army Air Force, missing in ac-
tion over Belgium since October 15, 1944.

Lt. Joseph Robins Littlepage, 42, Army Air Force, reported
missing in action, July 19, 1943.

Jack Clary Murrell, 43, U.S. Army, missing in action in Ger-
many since taking part in the siege of Aachen, October 7,
1944.

Rhodes Shackelford Parrish, 39, Army Air Force, missing
in action in France, May 27, 1944.

Reginald H. Pettus, 42, Army Air Force, missing in action
over Germany since May 12, 1944.

Lt. James Tyler Ramsey, 43, Army Air Force, reported out
on training combat mission, failed to return; no trace
found by Army and Navy planes, Coast Guard, surface
ships and marines.

Major William Addison Ray, ‘06, U.S. Army, Retired, car-
ried on records of Adjutant General as missing in action
in the Philippines since May 7, 1942.

Lt. Thomas Warren Stein, ‘42, Army Air Force, reported
missing in action in the European area on March 8, 1943.

John Connell Tucek, "45, U.S. Merchant Marine, officially
listed as missing in action when his ship was torpedoed
in the Atlantic early in 1943.

Prisoners of War

Ensign Wilmurt Addison Bennett, Jr., 42, U.S. Navy, re-
ported to be a prisoner of the Japanese in the Philippines.

Lt. William Robert Cory, °43, U.S. Army, prisoner of war,
Tobin, Group 3. Reported at Shubin, a small town below
Bydgoszez, about 100 miles west of Warsaw.

Lt. Daniel Lewis Finley, 40, Army Air Force, missing in
action since July 29, 1944. Message through Red Cross
states that he is a prisoner of war of the Germans.

William B. Harrington, Jr., ‘29, U.S. Navy, reported prisoner
of the Japanese on Davao, the island of Mindanao.

Lt. Earl Hugh Hulsey, '39, Naval Air Corps, reported to be
a prisoner of war and confined in Japanese Prison Camp
No 2, Davao, Mindanao

2nd Lt. John Lee Kirkpatrick, 43, Army Air Force (bom-
bardier), American Prisoner of War, 1371 Stalag Luft
No. 3, Germany, via New York.

Lt. Daniel Bailey Owen, ‘43, Army Air Force (bombardier),
reported missing in action. Unofficial word through a
Japanese broadcast that he is a prisoner of war.

Lt. Henry Cabiness Peeples, '43, Army Air Force, missing
in action since August 17, 1943, while piloting a Flying
Fortress. Reported a prisoner of war in Germany.

Burrell Lee Shaw, °40, unclassified, reported as a prisoner of
war in Germany.

Capt. Cash Taylor Skarda, ’41, U.S. Army, reported prisoner
of war by Japanese in the Philippines, has been moved to
Formosa.

Lt. William Arnold Young, III, ‘39, Army Air Force, missing
in action over Germany since May 8, 1944. Reported
prisoner of war somewhere in Germany.

» a 2s
Se aE

” aes 2 <a 0, © ty 5 on itt “
otis LS oie” Sem Pew te oy. hades hile rs
SAS SPEER TE 264. Soper (gr yey
- “ayy . wae ~ Sere °° Vine. 7 ‘ vFshe ga eeee

ge a aes

 

 

> =
ie = eal iim
el

 

 

 

 

: Y :
AX

; oe tt
PS 'y
4

| wi rg Fer oe
B\t , Mado a4 eNegt ti a xine
“\\ be ont send Pee ~ oes 4

t
y¥)
J

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

A LTHOUGH a large order for Washington
and Lee plates was placed many months ago only a small shipment has
been received in this country, and we have no assurance as to further
deliveries.

The Alumni Office has been overwhelmed with orders for plates
since the advertisement appeared in the January issue of the magazine,

and we have no plates for sale until a further shipment is received.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

