March, 1942

 

Class Agents for 1942

1941A—Charles N. Hobson, Lexington, Va.

1941L—Pete S. Barrow, 66 North Abney Circle, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1940 A—A. Lea Booth, 3700 Cumberland Street, N.W., Wash-
ington; D. C.

1940L—John Newton Harman, III, Welch, West Virginia.

1939A—Allen T. Snyder, D-43 Chase, Soldiers Field, Boston,
Massachusetts.

1939L—John L. Hawkins, II, Atlas Building, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1938A—Harry M. Philpott, 409 Prospect Street, New Haven,
Connecticut.

1938L—Dwight A. File, Beckley, West Virginia.

1937A—Howell W. Roberts, Jr., 102 Fourth Street, Garden
City, New York.

1937 _L—Edwin M. Marks, J. Goldsmith & Sons Co., Memphis,
Tennessee. :

1936A—Rev. James L. Price, Jr., St. Charles Avenue Presby-
terian Church, New Orleans, Louisiana.

1936L—C. Olin Brownell, Mead Building, Mechanicsville,
New York.

1935A—Rolland H. Berry, Little Fields, Harrisonburg, Vir-
gjnia.

1935L—Tom C. Smith, Box 1693, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1934A—Fred O. Funkhouser, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

1934L—Layne H. Ford, 614 Chamber of Commerce Bldg.
Charleston, West Virginia.

1933A—Luther Violette, Jr., American Life Bldg., Louisville,
Kentucky.

1933L—Bernard B. Davis, Shelbyville, Kentucky.

1932A—William C. Edwards, D’Arcy Advertising Company,
Missouri-Pacific Bldg., St. Louis, Missouri.

1932L—Ross L. Malone, White Bldg., Roswell, New Mexico.

1931A—Ben M. Ayars, 1714 Senate Street, Columbia, South

Carolina.

1931L—O. J. Wilkinson, 995 North Fourth Street, Columbus,
Ohio.

1930A—Kenneth L. Keil, 1015 Myers Building, Springfield,
Illinois.

1930L—Thomas D. Shumate, Irvine, Kentucky.

1929A—Irwin T. Sanders, University of Kentucky, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky.

1929L_—Charles L. Claunch, Chattanooga Bank Bldg., Chat-
tancoga, T’ennessee.

1528A—J. W. Alderson, Jr., 208 Garland Street, Forrest City,
Arkansas.

1928L—J. Harold Osterman, P. O. Box 1217, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

1927 A—Judge J. T. Lowe, Tunica, Mississipp1.

1927L—John DeWeisse Carter, Denton, Maryland.

1926A—Thomas P. Foley, 151 West 49th Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana.

1926L—Earl Valentine, Lexington, Virginia.

1925A—Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, 1211 Naldo, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1925L—-William A. McRitchie, Guaranty Trust Company, 140
Broadway, New York, N. Y.

1924A—John F. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue, Birming-
ham, Alabama.

1924L—John W. Greene, Park National Bank Bldg., Knox-
ville, Tennessee.

1923A—A. C. Bryan, Provident Life & Accident Ins. Co.,
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

1923L—Robert H. Carr, Box 460, Jasper, Alabama.

1922A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Williams Building, Orlando,
Florida.

1922L—Joe L. Silverstein, Charleston National Bank Bldg.,
Charleston, West Virginia.

 

1921A—Homer E. Henderson, Second National Bank, Hoys_
ton; lexas.

1921L—R. C. Wood, Peoples National Bank Building, Lyneh.
burg, Virginia. ;

1920A—Thos. McA. Stubbs, 1010 Rhodes-Haverty Building
Atlanta, Georgia. '

1920L—Chester S. Shade, 407 Thornapple Street, Cheyy
Chase, Maryland.

1919 ~—Rev. Theodore H. Evans, 2682 St. James Parkway
Cleveland, Ohio. i

1918 Horace C. Hearne, Hearne’s Department
Shreveport, Louisiana.

1917A—James A. Lee, McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 339
West 42nd Street, New York, N. Y.

1917L—John R. Brand, Hobbs, New Mexico.

1916A—Harrison P. Magruder, 1471 Park Road, N.W.
Washington, D. C.

1916L—-Edmund Magers, State Auditor’s Office, Atlanta,
Georgia.

1915A—Charles R. Beall, Peoples Trust Building, Martins-
burg, West Virginia.

1915L—J. D. Trimble, Trimble Bldg., Kl Dorado, Arkansas,

1914A—Walter J. Wilkins, Federal Compress & Warehouse
Co., Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

1914L—R. Lee Beuhring, First Huntington Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia.

1913A—C. C. Moore, The Meter Parts Company, 243 North
Fifth Street, Columbus, Ohio.

1913L—Henry B. Goodloe, 215 Fifth Street, N.E., Cig
lottesville, Virginia.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Virginia.

1912L—Russell B. Wine, National Bank of Commerce Bldg,
San Antonio, Texas.

Store,

1911A—

1911L—William S. Engleby, Shenandoah Life Bldg., Roan-
oke, Virginia.

1910A—C. W. Streit, 706 Lincoln Life Building., Birming-
ham, Alabama.

1910L—

1909A—Kester W. Denman, Lufkin, Texas.

1909L—Cuyte P. McChord, ‘Tallahassee, Florida.

1908A—Rev. Grover C. Gabriel, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

1908L—Hiram M. Dow, Roswell, New Mexico.

1907 —E. Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1906 —Henry C. Tillman, Suite 504, First National Bank
Building, Tampa, Florida.

1905 —Dr. T. Dwight Sloan, Flagler Hospital, St. Augustine,
Florida.

1904 —J. B. Akers, 3415 Fulton Street, N.W., Washimg-
ton, D.C.

1903 —Rev. Cary R. Blain, Ellerby, North Carolina.

1902 —J. P. Wall, 5414 Leary Avenue, Seattle, Washingtom™

1701 —A. F. White, 807 Carolina Avenue, Roanoke, Vit-
ginia.

1600 —Samuel Ruffin Horne, Fayetteville, North Carolim@

1397 :

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

1897 —Alumni Office.

1896 —J. W. Lattomus, Citizens Bank Building, Wilming-
ton, Delaware.

1895 —Alumni Office.

1894 Alumni Office.

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, N. Y-

1892 —Dr. E. L. Green, University of South Carolina, Co-
lumbia, South Carolina.

 

 

 

4

 

—

Appalachian
G. W. Summerson, Bristol, Va.
Arkansas
James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.
Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia
Alex M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland
John C. Hoover, 4428 Marble Hall Road
Birmingham, Alabama
John F, Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky
Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee
C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois
W. R. Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio
Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina
John L, Crist, FP. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio
Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
Carl ¥. Harris
Cumberland Valley
Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan
Kdward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’] Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky
Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee
Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York
Ray Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas
John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia
Ii. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont
A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
Dr. Dewey Davis
Roanoke, Virginia
E. H. Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State
George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.
Brian Bell, Star Building

’

 

 

HE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
Fyntered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

$2.50 a Year
Vol. XVII MARCH, 1942 No. 3
COE Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor....GkorGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PROMIER TO Joun C. Morrison, 1925
SCV. 36 Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
iveesred 3 Dr. Rein Wuire, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carroti Megap, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
h..G. Wrrrrie, 1924
RocEr BkEar, 1914

 

 

Front cover: lobby of the main building—bulletin
board—students considering their future in the armed
services—General Lee in the background as superin-
tendent of West Point in 1852. The boys on the cover
may be thinking about General Lee in another war.
The back cover shows the SATC in April, 1917, just
25 years ago—perhaps you remember it.

These are but three of the wars in her history.
Washington and Lee goes on.

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Opportunity

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

EARS ago I was walking across our campus with one
DY the noblest men that ever lived in Lexington—or
anywhere else. We passed the chapel. He stopped sudden-
ty and said, ‘““When I feel that the circumstances of life
depress me, even defeat me, I just slip down here and
stand and look for a long time into the

e ae
face of Lee. pee

Certainly today the circumstances of
life are depressing. Even this copy of THE
ALUMNI MacGazInE, I dare say, reflects
the seriousness of our thinking. The mag-
nitude of the war effort we must make
erows more apparent: citizens are paying
heavier taxes, are being called upon to
make severe denials in the ordinary com-
forts of life; the immediate prospects of
the University, dear to all of us, are

shadowed. ge

Whatever be the stringency of life for us who are
older, it is small compared to the drastic readjustment of
ambition and hope that must be made by these, our boys,
who go not along the path of their dreams but into the

actual defense of our country.
a

For all of us, these who are younger and those of us
who are older, the time has come to draw upon the re-
serves of our faith.

we

We must remind ourselves not only that we defend
the things that humanity can not lose, the liberties and
the values and the convictions that alone make life

worthy, but that we shall also be privileged to make a

 

better world, a world in which these things will be firmly
established for the generations that are to come. The
method of global war is not the method we would have
chosen, but it seems to be the only method; we shall use
it for the larger and the enduring results.
ee
Alumni of Washington and Lee do
not have to be told that General Lee
passed through darker hours than we have
or shall have, and that he saw always the
light. He gathered patiently the tumbled
fragments of life as he had known it and
with them he built a better- life.
Se
To think of him is to rise above these
momentary moods of frustration and fear

and defeatism.

If during the years we have been able
to make the Washington and Lee training mean what it
ought to mean, then it has a distinctive quality. Like other
experiences of higher education, it should make a man
gracious and cultured in his person, competent in terms
of his achievement. But it should also make to him a
peculiar contribution, that he is brave in frightening en-
vironment, adequate for the heroic moment.
eee

Herein, I believe, is our greatest opportunity. I have
formed within my own heart a resolution that we must
give greater emphasis to this resource of the institution’s

faith. The alumni, we are confident, will endorse and will

fo. kok. Mas

President

help.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

“I wish, indeed, it were the picture of America”

Facing Our Third Century

y the time this issue of the Alumni Magazine reaches
B its subscribers, every alumnus of Washington and
Lee will have had the opportunity to know the facts
about his university in the crisis that menaces us all.
The bulletin written by the president of the university,
dated February 16, 1942, gives you all these facts. It
leaves you to draw your own conclusions, and there
is but one conclusion to draw. Your university is in
danger, as 1s your country, but Washington and Lee
faces a special danger, shared only by American uni-
versities of a particular type.

It 1s not the purpose of this article merely to repeat
the essential truths put forth in President Gaines’ bul-
letin. This article is intended rather to amplify the bul-
letin and to emphasize its message—to make sure, so far
as 1s possible, that every alumnus realizes deeply the
obligation which his past and present association with
Washington and Lee University puts upon him to fulfil
at this time.

Everyone knows that the United States is fighting for
its very existence. Everyone knows that all thought, all
planning today, is predicated upon a successful termina-
tion of this war. But colleges of our type—men’s col-
leges without state aid and without military education—
could conceivably fail to survive, even though a long war
came to successful termination.

It is well enough to remember that Washington and
Lee survived another war, even though it ended in de-
feat, or that Washington and Lee went beyond that war,
through the poverty and trials of the Reconstruction.

One might even hope that another Robert F. Lee would
arise this time, if worse came to worse, to bring educa-
tional victory out of defeat. Perhaps; but we can hardly
count on another Lee.

Though the present situation might look less men-
acing on the surface than did the last one, we must realize
the significant fact that colleges in 1865 were rare; today
they are legion. Dr. Gaines pointed out in the pages of
this magazine as early as February, 1939, that the situa-
tion of the privately endowed college was precarious even
then—that the money poured into state institutions by
state and federal governments drove students into less
expensive forms of education than ours. Who was to tell
these students that for the cheaper price, they got what
they paid for; that Washington and Lee has values far
surpassing any price?

No Washington and Lee man expects his college to
face actual catastrophe, even in the face of the war, the
draft, and the competition afforded by other institutions—
institutions that must seem, to the uninformed prospective
student, to offer something more practical for his 1m-
mediate future than can be obtained here at the moment.
Yet every Washington and Lee man must realize that
the most hideous possibilities cannot be ignored in time
of war.

With such realities clearly in view, even the most
sensitive graduate of this institution will certainly rise t0
action. Something out of the past will come into his
mind. More than ever he will realize his debt to the col
lege that gave him very much for very little. Perhaps

[4

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ee

he will recall the words of Jonathan Daniels quoted in
our last issue: “I brought you this way only because |
wanted you to see the South at its most beautiful: the
sreen sloping campus to the red-brick buildings with the
bl white porticoes of Washington and Lee University. I
wish it were the picture of the South. I wish, indeed, it
were the picture of America.”

Dr. Gaines has fully described, in his recent bulletin,
the steps being taken by the university to cope with the
terrible problems that confront us. He has shown that
our first effort, naturally, has been to co-operate as fully
as we can in the war effort of the United States. That
part of the program will go on, and no one need ponder
it further.

The next part of the program must also be well
understood from the bulletin. Like most other American
colleges we are going to adopt the “accelerated cur-
riculum.” For the first time in the 193 years of our his-
tory we are going to undertake a summer session. So far
as the war effort is concerned, this summer session will
insure to the United States a larger body of educated
citizens for the armed forces. So far as the college is
concerned, it will afford a way to keep boys below the
draft age in school.

Into this summer session the Board has decided to
admit some women. This decision, appearing to be a
spectacular departure from our tradition, has aroused
more comment than anything else. The Memphis Comz-
mercial Appeal commented, “W&L, Goes Sissy.” Natur-
ally, a newspaper, seeking to make as much as possible
out of the news at hand, would indulge in this form of
comment. Yet a moment of reflection shows that Wash-
ington and Lee has done nothing remarkable in allowing
a few girls to participate in a few courses during a sum-
mer session.

The admission of women to a summer session does
not change a man’s school to a co-educational institution
any more than the granting of an honorary degree to
an outstanding woman writer made a co-educational insti-
tution out of Bowdoin College some years ago, when
criticism leveled at Bowdoin might have led one to think
so. If the admission of women is a departure from tra-
dition, so is the summer session itself. What Washing-
ton and Lee stands for cannot be changed because girls
are in classrooms who are not weary dates after a dance.

The relative proportion of women to men in the sum-
mer school at Harvard has been large; so has that at
Yale; yet no one has ventured to call Harvard or Yale
co-educational. Our situation here is quite unlike that
faced by Washington and Lee in 1896 (as described by
Dr. Howe in our issue of December, 1939). Were the

present faculty and board now confronted by a situa-
tion comparable to that one, with the proposal that wom-
en be admitted unconditionally as regular students, the
vote would be unanimous against it—co-education would
not lose by one lone vote as it did then.

The summer session will be undertaken, on a year-
to-year basis, as a necessary evil, for better or for worse.
Gladly, the faculty is doing its part without compensa-
tion. We hope that the session will be helpful both to the
University and to the country. It is an experiment. Only
time will tell.

Such, in general, are the plans so far proposed for
the salvation of your college—plans made with much
eratifying alumni help. The question is whether or not
these plans will be sufficient.

The problem is difficult because the perils facing
your university are peculiar to it alone. Bad as the diffi-
culties you or your business may be now encountering,
those of your college are probably worse. How you may
help has been already told you by the president of the
university.

If every alumnus will, as he should, adopt the prob-
lems of Washington and Lee as 1f they were personally
his own, there can be no doubt that eventually we shall
go ahead to a second two hundred years, finer than the

first. caciye

 

A Wisttul Apologia to
Subscribers

Most of our subscribers, we imagine, have not no-
ticed the shrunken size of recent editions of the Alumni
Magazine, but some may have happened to perceive that
our usual 32 pages are down to 24.

We're sorry. We wouldn’t have had it happen. It
erieves us if nobody else. The budget did it, and the
budget is law. We recall the day during the depression
when the Saturday Evening Post was cut in half. We
were working for the U. S. Mail at the time and had to
carry heavy bales of the Post every week; so we were
delighted at their misfortune. But the Alumni Magazine
never hurt a postal employee. This is war.

Though our page-length has been cut down, we have
tried to keep the usual number of class notes and trust
we have in no way changed the quality of our output. We
hope the reduced magazine will not reduce the subscrip-
tion list but will enlarge it. No postman will be harmed;
Washington and Lee will be benefited greatly. So will
the subscriber.

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Thomas James Farrar, 1869-1941

orN April 17, 1869, at Oak Springs,
B Fluvanna County, Virginia, in the
very heart of the Old Dominion, edu-
cated at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Thomas James Farrar typified the
noble and genuine Virginian of the Old
School. A large circle of alumni and
friends will be grieved to learn of his
passing at his home in Charlottesville, December 21,
1941. He entered Washington and Lee in 1891 and soon
took an active part in student life, as first editor of the

 

Ring-tum Phi, manager of football, and president of the
YMCA. His fraternity membership was in Delta Tau
Delta, and he was later its faculty adviser. Washington
and Lee conferred on him the A.B. in 1895, M.A. in
1897 and the Ph.D. in 1901. His later graduate training
as a philologist was gained at the University of Gottingen,
Germany, in 1906 and at Paris in 1908.

Dr. Farrar immediately began to teach and devoted
his entire career to this profession, beginning by serv-
ing as a Washington and Lee instructor, 1895-99. He was
married on December 28, 1899, to Miss Margaret Lynn
Harris of Albemarle county, who survives him. After
several years in Georgia, during which he both taught
and did administrative work, Dr. Farrar returned to his
alma mater in 1905 as a professor of German, serving in
this capacity until his retirement in June, 1939. Since that
date he had resided in Charlottesville. It is pertinent to
note that forty-two years of his total life-span of seventy-
two were spent on the Washington and Lee campus,
where he loyally gave of himself.

During World War I, Dr. Farrar was stationed at
Camp Lee, and acted as secretary of the War Work
Council. He organized the first Inter-Fraternity Council,
was its first president, and for many years served in this
office. In later years he became a member of Pi Delta
Epsilon, honorary journalistic fraternity.

Dr. Farrar, who possessed ability as an organizer,
organized and served as president of the Lexington
Rotary Club. His wholehearted, zealous interest in com-
munity projects was further evidenced by his work with
the Red Cross. Most citizens of Lexington were familiar
with his cheery greeting to people on the street. He was
an elder in the Presbyterian Church and active in Ma-

sonry, having participated in organizing the Square ang
Compass, a body of college Masons. His hobby was the
development of fine trees on a beautiful lawn with jgg
flowers and shrubs, surrounding his home, Stone Cot-
tage, on the outskirts of Lexington. Many hours of Joy
ing labor were spent there; a more pleasant spot was difaam
ficult to find. Within the home the visitor was at onee
struck by social charm, graceful dignity, and quiet re
finement of attractive antique furnishings.

It is difficult to sketch the character, personality and
teaching of Dr. Farrar in a few words. His greatest
achievement was just being himself—‘‘Tommy” as he
was affectionately called by students. T'wo of his chief
characteristics were a spirit of broad tolerance and the
quality of patience. In the classroom he possessed humor,
a steady flow of clear illustrations and apt anecdotes. He
moved others, particularly students, by the straightfor-
ward honesty of his thinking and acting. His was the
serene “wisdom of the heart.” Kindly and approachable
in his bearing, he drew young men to him.

From his youth on, he was always interested in any-
one in trouble. At prep school he interceded once for a
younger boy in danger of expulsion, and this trait of
securing a fair deal for all stuck with him. Few people
connected with Washington and Lee have had more
friendships. His interest in student welfare is shown by
his long-time chairmanship of the faculty committee on
scholarships, medals and prizes and by work on the fra-
ternity and curriculum committees.

A member of the Modern Language Association of
America and its Virginia section, Dr. Farrar was more
interested in teaching than in research for publication.
He edited La Cigale chez les Fourmis and published The
Gerund in Old English (1901), as well as a number of
papers, book reviews, and articles. In the classroom he
combined accuracy and precision of work with breadth
of view. It was an unforgettable experience to hear him
expound the philosophical truths of Faust or Nathan der
Weise. Students of German language and literature
gained from him a real enthusiasm for further study.
Superficiality and sham in any form were far from him.

Many will miss a sincere friend, a delightful com-
panion, and a charitable gentleman who trod the path

of duty. i W. DUNNINGTON, 1928.

| 6 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Eight Faculty Members Called

uk student body of Washington and Lee is not the
ey part of the university that is shrinking; the facul-
ty is also growing smaller all the time as the government
‘ncreasingly calls upon those with special training.

The first to go was Professor Charles P.
Light, who held a reserve commission in the
Judge Advocate’s Department and was or-
dered to Bermuda early in 1940. Next to de-
part was Dr. Herbert Trotter, a physicist,
who is doing special research for the govern-
ment.

This year, Dr. Marcellus H. Stow, chair-
man of geology, became Assistant Admini-
strator of Mines and Quarries for the War
Production Board. Larkin H. Farinholt 1s
in Pittsburgh doing chemical research; Dr.
L. C. Pettit of biology is a lst Lieutenant of
Infantry, while quite recently Professor
Oscar W. Reigel has gone to Washington to apply his
expert knowledge of journalism and propaganda to the
problems of the Coordinator of Information. Almond
Coleman, ’26, professor of accounting, reports on March
12th as Captain in the army.

Best known to alumni among the eight so far called
is Dr. Reid White, Jr., °19, university physician and
treasurer of your alumni association. Dr. White held a
reserve commission, as Captain, in the medical corps,

 

Reid White, Jr.

with the understanding that he would not be called unless
the United States actually went to war. Consequently,
the 3lst of December saw him leaving Lexington to join
the University of Pennsylvania medical unit at Fort Cus-
ter, Michigan, whence he has gone to an
unnamed destination.

Dr. White’s place is being filled, until his
return, by Robert S. Munger, ’35, who took
his M.D. from Tulane after two years here.

Other vacant positions are being carried
on as follows: Charles V. Laughlin 1s teach-
ing law for Mr. Light, while Thomas E.
Lothery has the courses in physics left by
Mr. Trotter. At present, Professor Edward
Lammers is taking over Dr. Stow’s classes,
with the help of a student assistant; the
chemistry department, meanwhile, has ab-
sorbed Dr. Farinholt’s work aided by J. J.
McDermott, who is doing some of the laboratory work.
Thomas H. Alphin, ’36, has returned and is taking Dr.
Pettit’s work in biology. Robert M. Hodges, instructor in
journalism and director of the news bureau, has taken
over Professor Riegel’s work, with the exception of three
courses, one of which is being taught by G. S. Jackson of
the department of English, another by C. Harold Lauck,
of the Journalism Laboratory Press. A third was com-
bined with Professor Watkin’s class in Creative Writing.

 

War and Dr. Gaines

Ae president of an American college has
been quoted as saying that ‘the sole duty of a col-
lege president consists in the giving and receiving of
pain.” This description, succinct though it may be, hardly
sums up the duties that a college president is burdened
with, and all alumni of this institution must be aware that
President Francis P. Gaines, administering the university
in accordance with the three sometimes conflicting views
of undergraduates, trustees, and alumni—has a real job
on his hands. And Dr. Gaines, in addition, teaches ‘The
Bible as Literature.”’

Yet, in the war emergency, Dr. Gaines has found time
for outside activities which alone ought to be enough to
take anyone’s full time.

He is a member of the 5-man Presidential Commis-

sion on ‘Patent Planning,” to seek to redirect the crea-
tive energies of American industry into peace-time op-
portunities after the war.

He is State chairman, Virginia Committee for De-
fense Savings.

He is a member, representing men’s colleges, of the
American Council on E,ducation’s Committee on Military
Affairs, principally to advise with the Selective Service
Board in regard to occupational training.

He is chairman, special committee of the American
Association of Colleges, “to relate non-military colleges
to the war effort.”

It is not by chance that Dr. Gaines has been appointed
to these important committees. His ability has long been
recognized by national as well as state authorities.

Le

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Sorrells Named Assistant
Director of Censorship

Joun H. SorreEtys, 18, who has served as Execu-
tive Editor of all Scripps-Howard newspapers since
1930, has been named to the position of Assistant Direc-
tor of Censorship to deal with problems affecting the

press. No alumnus
needs to be told that
this is an extremely
big job and a really
great honor at this
time.

Byron “Price;..Di-
rector of Censor-
ship, in making the
appointment in De-
cember, over,

Sorrells is a news-

said,

paper man of wide
experience and. rec-

z

Oenized” ability;
Price.” stressed the
tact that, Sorreils
was accepting the
position “‘at consid-
erable personal sac-

rifice.”’

 

The new director,
after graduating fro Washington and Lee in 1918,
went overseas, serving as a First Lieutenant in the in-
fantry, and then went into newspaper work in which
his subsequent experience has been very extensive. He
began his career as a reporter on the Daily Graphic in
Pine Bluff, Arkansas, in 1919 and rose to the position of
editor three years later. He spent another three years as
news editor of the Daily Oklahoman. Since 1926 Sorrells
has served as managing editor of the Cleveland Press and
the Memphis Press-Scimitar and as editor of the Fort
Worth Press.

While taking up his duties as Executive Editor of
the Scripps-Howard papers, this veteran newspaperman
found time to write The Working Press, which was pub-

lished in 1930.

The Sorrells have four children: John Harvey, Jr.,
Peggy Ann, William Gordon, and Robert ‘Talliafero.
Their home is in Pelham Manor, New York.

John Harvey Sorrells, Jr., is a member of the fresh-
man class at Washington and Lee this year.

Weddings

NeEws reaching the Alumni Office indicates that those
hereinafter named are to be congratulated on their good
fortune in being recently wedded to the following brides.

1955

ALBERT OGLESBY BuRKE to Miss Nancy Bruce Me.
Culloch at the bride’s home in Lexington, Virginia, on
February 25th.

1937

FREDERICK ARELL Marstecitar to Miss Ruth Mary
Quinn on December 27th at St. Ann’s Church, Washing-
ton, Doss.

1938

SETH NoEL BAKER to Miss Geraldine Teresa Sullj-
van on Christmas Day at the Church of Saint Brendan.
New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Baker are living at 172
South Long Beach Avenue, Freeport, New York.

1940

Herpert Linpsay Litr_e to Miss Belle McLaughlin
Hearon on January 24th at Trinity Episcopal Church,
Columbus, Georgia.

1941

WILLIAM PaTTrERSON AmEs, Jr., to Miss Mary Jane
Kiser on December 31st at Clarendon Methodist Church,
Arlington, Virginia. Mr. and Mrs. Ames are living at 638
North Jackson Street in Arlington.

ALFRED THomAS BisHop, JRr., to Helen Elizabeth
Lewis on December 20th, in the Raleigh Court Methodist
Church, Roanoke, Virginia.

RicHarp Harotp PincK to Alexa Thomas McColl
in Bennettsville, South Carolina on February 14th. Mr.
and Mrs. Pinck will be at home at 3220-A Hanover
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

 

THE new president of the Orange County (Florida)
Bar Association is S. E. Durrance, ‘17. The organization
consists of about 150 members.

‘He has practiced in Orlando since 1917,” according
to the Orlando Sunday Sentinel, “earning the esteem
of his clients and colleagues and gaining a wide acquaint-
ance in the state and nation, not only through his ap-
pearances in court but also through his memberships 11
the Florida Bar Association and the National Bar As-
sociation.”

[8 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Winter Sports Campaign

hi R : A large group of alumni
Mat 1S to elire who know Archie Mathis
and his splendid record as wrestling coach at Washing-
ton and Lee will regret to learn that he has resigned his
position as coach, and assistant professor of physical
education, effective next September.
During his seventeen years here he
has acquired a farm in Vienna, Illinois,
where he has spent all his summer
vacations. He feels now that it needs
his attention all the year round.

Few coaches at Washington and
Lee have ever been as successful as
has Mr. Mathis. The seventeen varsity
teams trained by him engaged in 104
contests, won 80, tied 2, and lost only
22. His teams have brought home 11
Southern Conference wrestling cham-
pionships, and this year’s group missed
the twelfth by a small margin. Fight
seasons have seen Washington and Lee
wrestlers undertake difficult schedules
with neither loss nor tie. His fresh-
man teams were undefeated in state and Southern Con-
ference competition for ten years up until 1939. This
year’s team had won six out of six matches up to the con-
ference tournament and had rather badly defeated their
rivals from North Carolina who were this year’s victors.

Mathis came to Washington and Lee from [Illinois
where he graduated from the state university, to which,
by the way, he hopes soon to send his daughter. That he
wishes, under these circumstances, to go back home and
operate his farm, is easily understandable; but at Wash-
ington and Lee, Coach Mathis will certainly be missed.

Coach Archie Mathis’
have pushed through a victorious

Wr e stlin g grapplers
season with six wins and no defeats in as many starts.
Winners of the Southern Conference title last year, the
Washington and Lee wrestling team was definitely a con-
tender this year for the same coveted title. In the dual
meets this year, the wrestling team had one that was a
shut-out with the Apprentice School of Newport News,
28-0. The closest contest was with the strong mat team
of the University of North Carolina, but the Generals
came through with a 17-11 score over their opponents.

 

Archie Mathis

The squad this year is practically the same as last
year’s. Southern Conference champions, red-headed Sam
Graham, 121-lb., Bud Robb, 128-lb., Captain Tommy
Fuller, 136-lb., and Lillard Ailor in the unlimited bracket,
will be in the running for the same honors again this
year at the Southern Conference meet
at Greensboro, North Carolina, Febru-
ary 27. Sammy Graham and Lillard
Ailor have been defeated only once
this year, and Bud Robb and Captain
Fuller have finished the season unde-
feated in dual competition. Jim Evans,
128-lb., competed twice in this division
with as many wins. At the 145-lb., slot,
Dave Embry had one win and two de-
feats, and in the same class Charley
Lanier has had two wins with no de-
feats. Doug. “Phantom”: House, -155-
lb., finished his season with five wins
and one defeat, and Bob Schellen-
berg, 165-Ib., has compiled four wins
and one loss. Roger Soth,: 165-Ib.;
suffered one defeat and no wins. At
175-lb., Ed Waddington won three times and lost twice.
The team totals according to individual calculations have
been fairly impressive: 38 individual wins with 11 of
these by falls; and only 10 individual losses.

The season’s schedule and scores:

Washington and Lee 28,
Washington and Lee 24,
Washington and. Lee. 1/7, U. of North Caroling ~~ 1

Apprentice School 0

8

1

Washington and Lee 27, Northwestern {
8

6

North Carolina State

Washington and Lee 22, Davidson
Wasiington and Lee 22, Ve Pod.

140 36
Averages 23.33 points per meet to 6.00

Total points

Al Darby from Martinsburg, West Virginia, is man-
ager of this year’s team.

Basketba]] Staging an up-hill battle after

dropping their first six contests in
a row, Washington and Lee’s fighting basketball team
gained a berth in the annual Southern Conference tour-
nament for the tenth year in a row in addition to grab-
bing off second place in the Big Six title chase.

ie

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Generals literally “backed” into the tournament,
gaining their berth by losing to George Washington on
the same night that their nearest competitors, Furman
and Virginia Tech, were eleminating themselves from
consideration by dropping conference games.

Coach Cookie Cunningham held little hope of a suc-
cessful season for the cagers at the start of the campaign
with only two veterans—Captain Ed Cuttino and Leo
Signaigo—returning, but a band of seven sophomores
from last year’s mediocre frosh team changed the com-
plexion of things entirely.

Stellar soph guard, Clancy Ballenger, has waged a
scoring battle with the two veterans all year, gaining the
lead near the end of the season. At the same time, Harry
Baugher, Lanky Leon Harris, Bill Bryan, George Wood,
Jack Roehl and Don Johnston have helped in the stretch.

The Blue courtmen ended up the state race with five
wins and three losses for second place, and chalked up
seven victories and seven defeats in gaining eighth place
in the conference.

Chances for next year’s team appear considerably
brighter with eight men slated to return, only Cuttino be-
ing lost. In addition, several members of this year’s
frosh squad will be on hand to bolster the team.

The freshmen scored six wins against five losses 1n
competition this winter, but produced several players
who will be key men in next year’s plans.

Harry Harner, Sam DiBlasi, Pinky Norman and
Dick Working particularly are being counted on next
season. Others who may develop include Jack Sater, Bob
English, Dave Clark, John Casey, Jack Kibler, Harry
Brown and Ben Kaplan.

: : Cy Twombly’s swimmers, woeful-
Swimming ly shy of material, wound up their
season with only one win compared to four losses. ‘The
lone win was over William and Mary, while losses were
suffered to North Carolina State, Virginia Tech, Duke
and North Carolina.

Bill Webster, captain-elect for 1943, was the out-
standing individual performer, turning in four wins in
five starts in the backstroke and coming within two-
tenths of a second of the W&I, pool record for the event.

Webster’s 24 points tied for high-scoring honors with
Jim Priest, long-distance free style star, who chalked up
three first places. Not far behind with 22 points was Bill
Babcock, sophomore sprint star.

As with the cagers, the mermen will lose only one
man, Captain Evans Jasper, and should have a more suc-
cessful season next year, although this year’s freshman
swimmers showed little promise.

| 10 |

   
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Fencing On a rather short schedule the feney
ing team has met some excellent com.
petition and has been undefeated up to this time. With
wins over North Carolina, 9-8, and V. P. I., 12-5, /
team is looking forward to meeting the University of |
Virginia on March 7. There is a possibility that William
and Mary will be added to the schedule, but no definite
plans have been made. 1
Although as yet unrecognized, the fencing team hopes

to gain recognition as a minor monogram sport. Ten
southern and southeastern teams will compete in a tour-—
nament at the University of North Carolina on April -
3rd and 4th, and the Generals will be there. q
Tad Humphreys, who has been responsible for the |
introduction of this sport to Washington and Lee, per- ’
forms the role of coach and captain. He has won 11 out—
of 13 individual encounters, taking part in all of the -
three weapon divisions of foils, sabre, and epee. John —
Wehncke, foils and epee, has five wins out of ten. Bob
Jaster, foils, has four wins out of six. Haller Jackson, ]
epee and sabre, won one and lost one. Jack Ware, sabre, ~
has taken three defeats, and Niles Grosvenor, sabre has ‘
not entered competition. Coleman Sholl has been acting as 1
manager, although there is no monogram award for this —
position in an unrecognized sport. }

 

I¥ you have missed the usual article in this issue on ‘
the Fancy Dress Ball, it might as well be noted that a
lot of things were missing about Fancy Dress this year.
Too much war. The theme was “A Night at Monte Car-7
lo;” the radio broadcast was cancelled ; the expenses were
cut down as much as possible. In spite of all this, it was :
a good dance. ]

 

Ricuarp P. Carrer, 1929, for five years a member
of the Lee Memorial Journalism Foundation and director 7
of the news bureau at Washington and Lee, is now as- ~
sociate editor of the Roanoke Times and World News j
Roanoke, Virginia. ‘

 
 
      

 

Cyrus W. Hatt, ’23, has gone into partnership with
Jackson D. Altizer and organized the firm of Hall and 7
Altizer with offices in the Charleston National Bank ~
Building, Charleston, West Virginia. ’

 

 

The editors express appreciation for help in the
preparation of this issue by the following members
of Professor Hodges class in Advanced Reporting:
Ned Burks, Dick Houska, Ed McCarty, and Mar-
shall Johnson. :

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

: ill FIELDEN Woopwarp, 73/7, was
Louisv1 © elected president of the Louisville
chapter for the coming year at the association’s annual
meeting held January °19. Murrel Kline, ’25, was named
secretary.

Coach Riley Smith represented the University at the
meeting.

Ernest B. Walker, Jr., reports the chapter had a fine
rally luncheon December 30, before the Washington and
Lee-St. Xavier basketball game played that night in
Louisville.

Coach Harold ‘Cookie’ Cunningham and Howard
Dobbins of Washington and Lee made brief talks.

Among those who attended the luncheon were:

Murrel Kline, Arthur Bondurant, Edward Duval,
Ernest Walker, Jr., Howard Dobbins, Lee Curd Miller,
Peel Rivers, Eddy Axton, Lee Miller, Fielden Wood-
ward, Bob Morrison, Robert Robson, Sr., Ed Rietze,
Greenberry Simmons, Luther Violette, Jack Hardwick,
meorge Burks, Oldham Clarke; Ernest S$. Clarke, Jr.,
Bonn J. Davis, Jr Charles Semple, jr M1. Ro jue:
Nelson, and William Otter.

: ‘THe annual Christmas luncheon meet-
ot. Louis ing of the Washington and Lee alumni
and students from St. Louis and vicinity, held at the
Kings-Way Hotel December 27, featured a talk by Jack
Barrie, 42, on current activities at school, and the droll
recollections of William M. Martin, ’95, of his days as
a student. The twenty attending showed a keen interest
in the regular business and in the war’s influence on the
University’s welfare. —

Hartford Tue Hartford alumni group held a

luncheon at the University Club on
December 5. Suggestions were made to draw alumni from
New Britain, New Haven and Bridgeport, as well as
Hartford, by having dinner meetings rather than lunch-
cons. No business was undertaken at the meeting.

; THE Piedmont Alumni Chapter met
Piedmont on January 19th at the O’Henry

Hotel in Greensboro, North Carolina, elected A. Stacy
Gifford, ’24, to the presidency, and named Frank O.
Steele, ’16, as secretary-treasurer for the current year.

Speeches were delivered by Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
Mr. Gifford and Emerson T’. Sanders, 2/,

Baltimore ‘Tue Baltimore Alumni Association

held its annual dinner November 1S
before the Washington and Lee-Maryland football game.
Students and their fathers from Baltimore also were in-
vited to the dinner for the first time.

After-dinner talks on the various aspects of football
and other activities at Washington and Lee were given
by “Cap’n Dick” Smith and ‘Tex’ Tilson.

Officers for the coming year elected were John C.
Eloover, 22; who succeeds J. Carl Hisher, 715, as presi-
dent, and Latimer G. Young, ’40, who was reelected sec-
retary-treasurer.

Guests present at the dinner were Mr. Harry Baugh-
er, Mr. Briscoe, Captain Brown, Mr. Raymond T. Long,
Mr. Paul J. B. Murphy, Jr., Dr. Henry L. Sinskey and
his son, Robert Sinskey, and Ken Van de Water, then of
the Washington and Lee News Bureau.

Alumni present at the dinner included J. G. Alnutt,
W.oM, Ballon, Pred: Barron, M--R, Brum, jr, AH.
Chatidier, Rt. Clapp, Jiyo8: Fb Parber, fri. de C.
Fisher, W.-W... Gwathmey, [7 J.-C, Hoover, G. WwW.
Flume, Je. Pe Ko Ingram, TV. jemerson, J. A. Johnstan,
W. 1. Kilmon, A. Landon, 1. S. Levinson.

J2D. Mayhew, W. C. Mead, A. -L.. Michaux, Ll. W.
Milbourne, P. J. B. Murphy, O. R. Price, W. F. Railing,
[. B, Franson, J. Tt. Rouse, |), Rutherrora, P. jp Ser
vapnine, jr, Gee billie fr. RoC. Sharcers, i; Mi. Sher
wood, W.-F. Sutton, Jr, C. [homas, 1. Ry. Vhomaa, (
A. Thompson, Li. Tignor, 1. G.-Y oung,

SPEAKING on “The American
New York Idea,” Dr. Wilham ‘T. Pauéche

brought home Washington and Lee’s place in perpetuat-
ing those things that have made America great, to the 85
alumni attending the annual banquet held in the Prince-
ton Club in New York, December 12th.

Introduced by Toastmaster John Davis as the “main-
stay of the faculty,’ Clayton E. Williams, twirling his
glasses characteristically, praised Riley Smith, newly ap-
pointed football coach.

Roy T. Grimley, recently-elected president of the as-
sociation, was in charge of the dinner. Noting that at-
tendance this year was twice last year’s, Mr. Grimley
said he believed that ‘‘the New York alumni are stronger
than ever before.”

Mr. Grimley was elected to fill the vacancy created

Per]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

when President Nelson Burrus resigned to move to
Johnson City, Tennessee, at the alumni business meet-
ing on January 12. At the same time, Gilbert Gardiner
was elected to the council to replace Bill Owen, who was
made vice-president.

The following were elected vice-presidents: for New
York City, Daniel Blain; for New Jersey, Jim Castner ;
for Long Island, Bill Owen; for Connecticut, Allan Mc-
Dowell; for Upstate New York, Carl Foss. Emmett W.
Poindexter was made secretary-and-treasurer.

Members of the council for the term ’41-’44 are Wil-
liam M. Brown, Thornton W. Allen, and Junius L.
Powell.

Philadelp hia Philadalphia alumni associa-

tion was cancelled by the chapter at a luncheon meet-
ing held on January 17, because of the national emerg-
ency, and more emphasis will be laid on monthly lunch-
eon meetings in the future.

Officers for the coming year will be elected, follow-
ing the report of the nominating committee, at the Febru-
ary luncheon, to be held on the 21st.

TuE annual dinner of the

 

Joun Mark GLENN, class of 1879, and active leader
in social work for forty-five years, has been elected a
trustee of the Community Service Society of New York
City

Mr. Glenn is also a trustee of the Regional Plan As-
sociation and Johns-Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore; secre-
tary of the Russell Sage Foundation; and a member of
the executive committee of the Federal Council of
Churches of Christ in America.

 

New Arrivals
1929

Witit1AmM MiLter Hinton and Mrs. Hinton an-
nounced the birth of a son, William Miller, Jr., on Febru-
ary 19th in the Jackson Memorial Hospital, Lexington,
Virginia.

1934

FRED O. FUNKHOUSER and Mrs. Funkhouser of Har-
risonburg, Virginia, announce the birth of a son, Charles
Randolph Funkhouser.

F, D. ANpgERson and Mrs. Anderson of Houston,
Texas, on October 29, announced the birth of a daughter,
Helen Sharp Anderson.

In Memoriam
1876

MATTHEW S$. BrapLey died at his home in George.
town, Kentucky, December 13. He was 89,

Mr. Bradley had practiced law in Georgetown since
1923 and was a former city attorney. He received his lay
degree at Washington and Lee in 1876.

He is survived by his sister, and a daughter and son.

1905

JAMES WILLIAM Kern, died on December 6, at q
local hospital in Paducah, Kentucky, after a year’s ij[-
ness. He was 54.

He was a son of the late Dr. James W. Kern, form-
erly a member of the Washington and Lee faculty in the
Latin department.

Mr. Kern was an officer for 37 years with the Illinois
Central Railway system and superintendent of the Ken-
tucky division at the time of his retirement last year,
During World War No. I, he was a captain with the 13th
Engineers in France.

Among those surviving is a son, Dabney Kern, who
attended Washington and Lee from 1939 to 1941. Other
survivors are his wife, Mrs. Nancy B. Kern; a daughter,
Miss Nancy Benson Kern; and two other sons, John S:
and James W. Kern.

Mr. Kern was buried at Paducah on December 8.

1907

J. W. Kirkpatrick, pioneer FE] Paso business man,
died at the Southwestern General Hospital in El Paso,
Texas, on December 6th after an illness of about ten
days. He was 57 years old.

He was prominent in E] Paso business and political
circles for a quarter of a century after moving there from
his native state, ‘l’ennessee, in November, 1911, when he
founded the Tri-State Motor Company.

At one time he was owner of the Universal Car
Company, president of the City Service Company, di-
rector of the Security Bank and Trust Company, presi-
dent of the Victory Piston Ring Company and secretary
of the Henning-American Lumber Company in El Paso.

He was appointed a county commissioner of Pre-
cinct No. 1 in March, 1925, and a year later campaigned
for the office of mayor. He retired from politics in May,
1926.

Later he became president of the Security Fireprool
Storage Company in El Paso and more recently was
publisher of a monthly magazine, Around Here.

He is survived by his widow and several children.

| 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1892
Rees TurPIN is a member
of the law firm of Behrendt and
Searing, New York Life Build-
ing, Kansas City Missouri. He
says he is applying the expres-
(in the

 

sion, “receding youth”

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

other good ‘Texas alumni. His

address is 1610. S. Marsalis,
Dallas Texas:

1897

Dr. Leroy BARRET 1s pro-
fessor of Ancient Languages at
Trinity College, Hartford, Con-

 

 

class letter) to himself personal-

ly, as it sounds much better than appr oaching age. He says
he is retaining as much of his youth as can be expected,
and it seems to him, a great deal more than many around
him are able to retain.

R. W. JopLine is the retired pastor of the Presby-
terian Church, Lancaster, South Carolina. He says, “I
believe I love Washington and Lee as truly and as warm-
ly as any man who was graduated there.”

1894

J. Preston BEALE was a visitor to the campus last
Finals. He has recently retired after forty-six years with
the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. He expects to
spend most of his time in Florida, Virginia, and Con-
necticut.

James N. Veecu, of Louisville, Kentucky, is now
making his home with his son, Alexander Veech, Super-
intendent of Grounds and Buildings, Washington and
Lee, Lexington, Virginia. His wife, who was Miss Agnes
Ross of Lexington, died during the winter. ,

W. H. KerstEr, superintendent of the
Harrisonburg public schools, writes of his
appreciation of the testimonial dinner given
at the Mayflower Hotel in Lexington last
May for Mr. Harrington Waddell, Super-
intendent of the Lexington Public Schools,
and himself.

‘ ml

eal

1896

J. W. Larromyus,: Class Agent tor
1896, is practicing law in the Citizens Bank “aly
Building, Wilmington, Delaware. iio)

yweE Ny]
[

: : Wl)
WILLIAM DiIcKINSON ADAMS 1s in tat

good health and enjoys his association with

as 'f rs

kk 3 hi i,
nw lj eH ys? | RAT
i
- —=—-- = b

y il
Ms .
ul \
a
i UGS Baw:

necticut He and Mrs.-. Barret
are frequent visitors to Washington and Lee’s campus.

1898

Hrnry W. ANDERSON is still a member of the firm
of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore, Electric
Building, Richmond, Virginia.

W. Ross McCain is president of the Aetna Insur-
ance Company, Hartford, Connecticut.

1899

BRADEN VANDEVENTER is a member of the law firm
of Vandeventer and Black, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia. He reports a great stress in business in
Norfolk, due to war activities.

JAmrES MULLEN is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liams, Mullen and Hazelgrove, 1001 East Main Street,
Richmond, Virginia.

1900

WiLuiaM P. Orr is head of the department of mathe-
matics, University of Alabama, University,
py Alabama.

Rosert A. Wartson is a lawyer and
banker in Charlottesville, Virginia.

     
  
   

1901

Joun M. Corserr resides in Bay City,
Texas, where he has practiced law for near-
ly forty years.

He is married to Nancy Duncan Cor-
bett, and they have three children: Duncan,
who studied geology and practiced athletics
at Washington and Lee for two years, and
subsequently graduated in geology at the

ui lh

[ 13 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

University of Texas. Later Duncan studied law and is
now employed by Humble Oil & Refining Company ;
Kitty King, who married Ben Powell, Jr., a VMI boy
who is now located at Washington as First Lieutenant
in the army; and Gibbons, who recently graduated at
Princeton in Geological Engineering, and is now doing
post graduate work at Leland Stanford University.

1902

VotnEY M. Brown notes that this fall will make
forty-three years since he first set foot on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. He took his law course at the Uni-
versity of Texas graduating in June, 1902, and has been
actively engaged in the practice of law in E1 Paso, Texas,
since that time. He has not been back to Lexington since
1913, but occasionally he meets some of the old boys—
recently, Major John McClure, who is teaching in the
New Mexico Military Institute at Roswell, New Mexico.

J. Woop Gtass, who is practicing law in Nowata,
Oklahoma, says that on a recent trip he stopped in
Tulsa, Oklahoma, and was pleased to meet his class-
mate, M. A. Breckenridge. He says: “During my recent
absence, the office force has been ‘cleaning house,’ and
my stenographer has just brought me a basket filled with
old note books containing my notes on lectures during the
1900-1902 campaign at Washington and Lee. Among
these books I have found the program for Finals Wash-
ington and Lee University—Non In Cautus Futuri
June 14 to 18th, 1902. On a faded page devoted to the
roster of the Academic Class, I find in old English the
name of ‘Elbert W. G. Boogher, Secretary.’ The perfect
condition of the full leather binding attests its genuine-
ness, and the parchment pages are in perfect condition.”

(Elbert W. G. Boogher is Class Agent for 1902).

Jupce Scorr M. Lortrn is a member of the law firm
of Loftin, Calkins and Anderson, Graham Building,
Jacksonville, Florida.

 

ALEXANDER D. HamILTon is a lawyer in Peters-
burg, Virginia. He has been practicing law in Petersburg
for forty years, and his son has been practicing law there
for eleven years. Mr. Hamilton has three daughters and
two sons, seven grandsons and two granddaughters.

1903
R. T. FLanary is president of the Norton Hardware
Company, Norton, Virginia. On the side, he is a cattle
farmer and banker.

SAMUEL McP. GrLascow has been pastor of the old
Independent Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Georgia
for the past ten years.

a

B. F. Comps is continuing the practice of law in Pres-
tonsburg, Kentucky.

1904
GEorGE EF. (“GEE”) Haw has, since leaving Wash-
ington and Lee, practiced law in Richmond, Virginia,
first as a partner of his father, George P. Haw, law ’67,
and since his death, by himself with a couple of associates,
He has always been intensely interested in and helpful in
University affairs. His son, George E., Jr., is in his sees

ond year at Washington and Lee.

E. W. PorinDEXTER is a member of the law firm of
Poindexter and Poindexter, Shenandoah Life Building,
Roanoke, Virginia. He served for two terms as class
agent for ‘04 and appreciates the difficulties under which
his agent is laboring.

WittiAmM ©. WILson is president of The Davenport
Insurance Corporation, Managers and Brokers, 113-15
East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia.

Leroy Tuompson, D.D., Pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Roswell, New Mexico, is an A. B. of 04
and received his honorary degree from the University in
1936. He has been in Roswell for fourteen years, and
chaplain in the reserve corps of the United States Army
since 1925. For the past eight years, as a kind of hobby,
he has been probation officer of the Roswell juvenile
COUT,

1906

Sam L,. PEERy’s work as a civil engineer carried him
to the Pacific Coast after he left Washington and Lee.
He spent the greater part of the intervening time in IIli-
nois. Since 1933 he has been connected with the National
Park Service in the capacity of Park Engineer. His ad-
dress is P. O. Box 605, Marion, Virginia.

Henry C. Tir_tMAn is practicing law in Tampa,
Florida, with offices in the First National Bank.

ALBERT (“Kip”) STEVES, JR., is still carrying on as
president of the Steves Sash and Door Company, San
Antonio, ‘Texas. His youngest son, Marshall, is a sopho-
more at Washington and Lee.

1907
By DonaLp W. McCuukr, Class Agent

Coronet H.W.Mit er, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, “I served at the University of Illinois
from 1909-1917, first as head of the Department of Gen-
eral Engineering Drawing, and then as both the head of
that department and as assistant dean of the college of

[14]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ne

Engineering. As a Lieutenant in the National Guard I
was engaged in the fiasco, or perhaps mobilization of
the Army in Texas in 1916, and then in 1917 became an
ofacer in Ordnance. I served two years overseas, finally
becoming the Chief of Engineers for the heavy artillery
of the Expeditionary Forces. And I served a year on my
return as Assistant to the Chief of the Artillery Division
of the Ordnance Department. At that time I began writ-
ing a series of six books that I have prepared on artillery
for the Army Schools of the United States. I am still
writing them. In 1920 and 21, I served as Engineer for
the Baltimore Smelting and Rolling Company, and then
came to the University of Michigan where I have been
now for nineteen years. During all this time I have con-
tinued my association with the Army as a Consulting
Engineer on the designing of artillery and my Army
status now is Colonel of Ordnance and Chief of the
Heavy Artillery Section of the Technical Staff into which
position I may find myself called on an active status with-
out any notice. It is more than pleasant living in Ann
Arbor, because it is one of the most delightful cities that
I have ever encountered...I still do not know where
W. E. Jones and Griffith are, and I wish somebody would
write and tell me.”

Joun S. Moore, U. S. Department of the Interior
Bureau of Reclamation, 450 Holly Street, Denver, Colo-
rado. “Your previous communication got lost in the shuffle
incidental to my transfer to Denver shortly before the
first of the year after a period of over 32 years on the
project, the last ten years being in the capacity as super-
intendent. The position here covers a broader field, al-
though still connected with the Bureau of Irrigation. |
am leaving tomorrow for Washington, D. C., to go
through the formalities of assuming new and added
duties and responsibilities connected with the operation
and administration of all completed projects under the
jurisdiction of the Bureau in the seventeen Western
States. My headquarters, however, will continue to be in
Denver.”

THomas FE. Opti: “Hor the past tea years [J have
been laboring in the diocese of Washington and my ad-
dress is 2401 Calvert St., N.W., that city. Having had
three small (Episcopal) churches in the rural section of
Maryland, I have called myself literally a “Trinitarian.”
For over twenty-five years I have been in the ministry,
having given up a city editor’s desk for the cloth. My
ministry has been chock full of interest, and my motto
has been, “For God and Humanity.” If any member of
the class of ’07 (or any one else whose eyes may scan
these lines) can frame a more useful or more compre-
hensive motto in so few words I would like to hear from

him. During the ministry, I have not entirely surrendered
the pen, as I have been Washington correspondent for
four church papers and have kept up my writing, on all
sorts of subjects, serious and humorous. A Canadian,
seeing an article of mine on Suicides wrote me that he
judged I was an Undertaker. Well, I am just that !—a
fellow who will tackle or ‘undertake’ anything good that

2

falls in the catagory: For God and Humanity.”

1908

JuLiIAN $. GRAVELY has resigned his position as
Manufacturing Manager of the Crown Cap Division of
Continental Can Company and is now working for the
Western Cartridge Company, the same line of work in
which he started twenty-four years ago. His address 1s
now 607 Summit Street, Alton, Illinois.

JoHN M. Brerer lives at 98 Collins Road, Waban,
Massachusetts. Jack, his oldest son, who graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1937, is now in the army in
Arkansas. His youngest son, James, who graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1940, was at the Harvard Busi-
ness School last April and expected to be in the army

in July.

Ww. F. Risk&r lives in Agujita Coah, Mexico. He sug-
gests that each class start an old age benefit fund for its
members, the last surviving to take all, provided Hitler
doesn’t beat him to it.

Don Boyer is teaching school in Richmond, Vir-
einia. His only child, Donald, Jr., is now on the faculty
of the infantry school, Fort Benning, Georgia.

Rosert S. KEeEsver is still with S. E. C. as attorney
in the Public Utilities Divison. He lives at 212 Raymond
Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland. His family consists of
four children. His oldest, Anne, graduated from Ran-
dolph-Macon Womans College, Lynchburg, last June, and
his son will enter college this fall, probably The Un1-
versity of Maryland.

G. C. GasrieEL is Minister of the Evangelical Church,
109 South Sixth Street, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

Grover A. BATTEN was still practicing medicine in
Honolulu, Hawaii, at 735 Bishop Street, when his class
letter was written last spring.

Bos ARNOLD is Judge of the Third Judicial Circuit
of Virginia, and lives at Waverly, Virginia. He has a
busy circuit—four counties and the City of Hopewell.

W. G. Lone and W. G. Long, Jr., are practicing law at
Paul’s Valley, Oklahoma. W. G. Long, Sr., enjoys being

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

back in practice after sixteen years on the bench as trial
judge. W. G., Long, Jr., is married and has two fine boys,
one six years old and the other three.

ErNEst L. BEALE is practicing law in Franklin, Vir-
ginia. He has three sons, one of whom received his A.B.
and LL.B. at Washington and Lee, and is now with the
F. B. I., located in New York State. His second son, who
also attended Washington and Lee for two years, 1s now
with the Quartermaster’s Department in Washington,

Dx.

1909
KrstErR DENMAN, Class Agent for 1909-A, is prac-
ticing law in the Lufkin National Bank Building, Lut-
kin, Texas.

Joe  LYKES: is: Vice-President of ioykes Brothers
Steamship Company, Incorporated. He was made a mem-
ber of the University Board of Trustees at their meeting
at Finals.

GuytE P. McCorp is Clerk of the Supreme Court of
Florida, Tallahassee, Florida. He says that his interest
in Washington and Lee has never waned.

Ewinc S. (“Bunny”) Humpureys is Contracting
Engineer with the Virginia Bridge Company, with offices
in the Healy Building, Atlanta, Georgia. His son, Ewing
S., Jr., is in his second year at Washington and Lee.
“Bunny” and his wife were very welcome visitors to the
campus at the opening of school.

C. I. Carty is practicing law in the Florida National
Bank Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.

1910

Puitie W. Murray is a member of the law firm of
Lett, Murray and Ford, First National Bank Building,
Newport News, Virginia.

James Houston WI Is is City Attorney for the
City of Birmingham, Alabama. His address is 420 City
Hall.

Wyatt C. Heprick is president of Wyatt C. Hed-
rick, Inc., Architects and Engineers, Fort Worth, Texas.

RussELL lL. Frink is general counsel for the Re-
ceivers of Florida East Coast Railway. His offices are in
the Graham Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He has a
daughter who has graduated from the Florida State
College for Women at Tallahassee and a son who is now
a freshman at the Law School of the University of
Florida at Gainesville.

 

Puitip WILLIAMS is practicing law in Woodstock,
Virginia. His son, Philip, Jr., took his M.A. at Wash-
ington and Lee at Finals, 1941. Mr. Williams also has
a son who was in the fourth class at VMI this year ang
will go on to Annapolis, where he has an appointment:
and two daughters, Margaret and Sarah Bird, who wn
be in college next year.

E911

; poe eke :

OMER I . KXKAyLor is practicing law in Hagerstown,
Maryland. His son, Omer T., Jr., is a freshman this year
at Washington and Lee.

James Brian BELL, is Chief of Bureau, the Assoej-
ated Press, Washington, D. C. His son, Brian, Jr., hopes
to be a member of the Class of 1948.

L. L. Humpureys is president of the Security Na-
tional Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma. He reports that things
are looking better in “the short grass country.”

Joun G. HERNDON is a professor at Haverford Col-
lege, Haverford, Pennsylvania. His son, Richard, gradu-
ated from Washington and Lee in June, Phi Beta Kappa,
magna cum laude.

Frep P. Gururik is district communications man-
ager, R. C. A. Communications, Inc., 112 Connecticut
Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. His oldest son gradus
ated from Washington and Lee with the Class of 1940
and is now at the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration, where he won a scholarship.

Rospert A. RussELt is practicing law in Rustburg,
Virginia.
1912
JAmEs O. Day is Assistant United States Attorney
for the northern district of Mississippi. He also has farm-
ing interests.

Byron L,. BALLARD, since the first of January, 1941,
has been acting as Legal Adviser to Governor Murray D.
Van Wagoner of Michigan. He was largely instrumental
in the peace formula which provided the basis for the
final settlement of the Ford Strike. His son entered the
freshman class at Washington and Lee in September.
Mr. Ballard is one of the directors of the Michigan Na-
tional Bank.

James C. Pickens is still with the Southern Railway
Company, 15th and K Streets, Washington, D. C. He
says he is now an “operating man.”

Dr. W. N. Hopexin of Warrenton, Virginia, was
awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Science by the

[ 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Medical College of Virginia at their commencement ex-
ercises in June.

WARREN ASHLEY RAINE is now in Washington, D.
C., serving as a consultant on explosives for the War De-
partinent. Fis address is 2120, 10th: St NW. Wash-
micton, DU.

1913

J. Prestry THornvton has recently retired from
representing the Standard Oil Company of New York
in Hong Kong, China, and is living in Hopkinsville,
Kentucky. He has a wife and three daughters.

Bos Wirt is president of the Builders Supply Com-
pany, San Antonio, Texas. He gets to Lexington once
or twice a year notwithstanding the distance. His oldest
daughter 1s now at Smith College, and she also keeps in
touch with the campus goings-on.

BERNIE HARPER is a member of the firm of Yantis-
Harper, Complete Service for Cars and Trucks, Fort
Smith, Arkansas. His son, Bernie, Jr., graduated from
Washington and Lee with the degree of B.S. in 1939.

Howarpb L,. Roprnson is a member of the law firm
of Robinson and Stump, Union National Bank Build-
ine, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1914

Dr. EF. W. BuckINGHAM is happy in his work in
Newport News, Virginia. His offices are in the Medical
Arts Building. He served for a number of years as a
Medical Missionary of the Southern Presbyterian Church
in Kashing, China.

Lron (“Ir1tsH’’) O’QuUINN is a member of the law
firm of Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker and O’Quinn, First
National Bank Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Bos McCiinTock is a member of the firm of W. S.
McClintock and Sons Company, General Merchants and
Cotton Buyers, Marianna, Arkansas. He is mayor of
Marianna, ‘The City Beautiful.” His son, Bob, hopes to
enter Washington and Lee in 1942. His daughter, Mary
Ward, will enter Sweet Briar in 1952. He says: “My
wife does have the cutest kids.”

Houston BARCLAY is in the insurance business in
Wichita, Kansas.

1915

Paut C. Tuomas is Lieutenant Governor of West
Virginia Kiwanis District, Bluefield, West Virginia. He
has three children: Beth, who graduated from Sweet

Briar last year and is now working on her Master’s de-
gree at Columbia; Paul, Jr., who is a senior at Washing-
ton and Lee this year, and William H., who is in the mid-
dle grade at high school.

C. M. Switzer, RK. fF. D. Ne. 1, Wilmington, Dela-
ware, says that his interests and activities are in the same
vein as they have been for the past several years. He is
Director of Production of the “Cellophane” Division, FE.
I. duPont de Nemours and Company, and, rightly or
wrongly, that just about takes up all his time.

GEORGE Ropert SHAW is manager of the Engineer-
ing Department of the Harrison, New Jersey, works of
the R. C. A. Manufacturing Company. They make the
tubes that R. C. A. sells for all lines of the business and
have nearly 4,000 employees in Harrison.

Leon Harris 1s still practicing law in Anderson,
south Carolina. He has a son in the sophomore class this
year at Washington and Lee.

1916
Kp W. DEARMon, 4504 Walsh Street, Chevy Chase,

Maryland, has two sons, aged ten and six. He has been
working for the Federal Government since 1926.

LYNCH CHRISTIAN Is still with the Imperial Colliery
Company, Lynchburg, Virginia. His son is now in his
second year at Washington and Lee.

A. L. BENNETT is superintendent of the Alleghany
Public Schools, Covington, Virginia.

FRANK O. STEELE says the only change in his status
Technical Staff on the
Bureau of Internal Revenue, which became. effective
January 1, 1940. His offices are in the Jefferson Standard
Building, Charlotte, North Carolina.

has been his transfer to the

1917

MarswaLtt TwyMan is practicing law with his
brother, Lewis ‘Twyman, in Miami, Florida, with offices

at 99 Southwest First Street.

Mitton B. Rocrrs has his offices at 50 Broad Street,
New York. He is connected with the American Water-
works and Electric Company, Incorporated, holding the
position of Executive Vice-President of one of their
subsidiaries, Community Water Service Company.

J. D. Fatson is with the Investment Department of
The Bankers Bond Company, Kentucky Home Life
Building, Louisville, Kentucky. He has lived in Louis-
ville for the past six years. His son, John, Jr., is at Webb

[i]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

School, being prepared for Washington and Lee, and the
younger, six years old, is just starting his education, but
“sings a mean ‘Washington and Lee Swing.’ ’

1918

JAmMEs J. Izarp is a member of the insurance firm of
Charles Lunsford and Sons, Colonial American National
Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He has a son, six
feet tall, who was captain of the freshman football team
at Princeton last year.

MatrHew W. Paxton, Jr., is practicing law in Lex-
ington, Virginia, and busy with many civic affairs, as
well as owner and editor of the Rockbridge County News.

Po19

JimMiE Fan is president of the City National Bank
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He says he has a
good wife and two children, a son 13, and a daughter 10.
He has just completed a two year term as mayor of
Winston-Salem.

». B. Curisty, Jr., is still living in Lansing, Michigan
and is district manager of the Sun Oil Company district
which includes Jackson, Michigan. He has been with this
company since leaving Washington and Lee in 1919, but
has lived from Texas to Pennsylvania and Michigan as
the occasion demanded. He has a son who graduated from
the San Angelo, Texas, High School last June.

1920

J. .B.AATRINS, Shreveport, Lowisiana. has a. son in
the freshman class at Washington and Lee.

R. W. RusseEtu has been teaching in Louisiana since
1922. He is now Superintendent of Schools, Tangipahoa
Parish, and lives at Amite, Louisiana.

Hope D. Starke is Solicitor General, Piedmont Judi-
cial Circuit, Lawrenceville, Georgia.

R. Hence Youne is a mechanical engineer in the
plant engineering department of the B. F. Goodrich
Company, Akron, Ohio. His address is 2656 West Bailey
Road, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.

CHESTER (“CHET”) SHADE is on the legal staff of
the Home Owners Loan Corporation, Washington, D. C.,
and lives at 407 West Thornapple Street, Chevy Chase,
Maryland.

Rospert G. KELLY is a member of the law firm of
Brown, Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia. Three of his partners are

[ 18 ]

also active in alumni affairs: Rocky Holt, John Mor rison,
and Goodridge Sale

E921

Dr. SAMUEL L. RaiINnx¥s is practicing medicine in
Tennessee. His address is 1834 Madison
Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee. He has a wife, three boys,

    
   
  
 

Memphis,

and a little girl.

Lester J. Fox is with the White Motor Compal |
Nashville, Tennessee. ;

Dr. Jonn Bowyer is a professor of English at
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. 1

Courtney Kine is practicing law in Roanoke, Vire
ginia, with offices in the State and City Bank Building,
His son is a member of the freshman class at Washing.
ton and Lee.

1922

Wittiam Henry Trorrer is in the insurance busi
ness with the firm of Trotter, Boyd and Keese, 1104
Provident Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He says he
has two awfully pretty girls aged ten and nine.

Matruew G. C. (“Marr”) HENDERSON was a Cape
tain with the 67th F. A., Camp Beauregard, Louisianay
This address was subject to change, but he can always be
reached through his Norfolk, Virginia, address: 430
Redgate Avenue.

Jor ParTon is an assistant cashier of the National
City Bank of New York. He is a member of the council
of the New York Alumni Group.

RupoLpH JONES has been employed by the ‘Tennessee
State Highway Department for the past eight years, and
is now located at Jackson, Tennessee, in the capacity of
Division Engineer. °

JAMES Maptson, of Madison, Madison and Files;
Bastrop and Monroe, Louisiana, complains that two of
his firm, George T. and E. F. Madison have both been |
inducted into the army, leaving three to do the work of
five. -

19235

GeEorcE T. (“Doc”) Hotsroox is still with the Cen-
tury Indemnity Company, Hartford, Connecticut. His
home is at 36 Coleman Road, Weatherford, Connecticut.

W. H. Haynes is practicing law in Fayetteville, West
Virginia, where he has been practicing since 1923. He
has been Commissioner of Accounts for the past eight
een years, was Commissioner in Chancery for a period —
of twelve years, and mayor of Fayetteville for two years: —

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

He is now Chairman of the American Red Cross and
attended the National Convention of American Red
Cross in Washington in April. He is married and has
two children, a boy and a girl aged nine and eleven.

L,YDELL PEcx is Chief of the Division of Fire Safety
for the State of California. He is also a member of the
California State Council of Defense. His address is 406
Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California.

Kinnarp D. Apporr is with the United States De-
partment of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization

Service, lOth and D. Streets, N.W., Washington, D. C.

THOMAS MorreEtL Wank, Jr., has been with the
Brown and Williamson ‘Tobacco Company in Louisville,
Kentucky, since 1930. He is now factory manager of
this company. He married Beverly Osborne, and they
have a son and two daughters.

I. L. Sates is with Belle Alkali Company, which he
says is running full force as is usual with most chemical
plants at this time.~His address is: P.O. Bex “1371,
Charleston, West Virginia. |

1924
By Otts Howe, Class Agent

RALEIGH JENKINS writes from Birmingham, Ala-
bama, where he is in the lumber and rock wool manu-
facturing business. He is married and has two daughters,
ages fifteen and ten years. John Hendon wrote that he
had enjoyed going over the Ring-tum Phi’s at Raleigh’s
home. He has taken the paper ever since leaving school.

Bitty KIRKMAN says that his status 1s about the
same as last year, with no runs, no hits, and he hopes not
too many errors. He 1s still identified with the manu-
facture of clinical thermometers, and so forth, in Nash-
ville, ‘Tennessee.

Jerry Lone practices medicine in Memphis, Tennes-
see. Lié is married, but 1 co not have 4 report of the
child situation. He is usually present at the Alumni meet-
ings when we get together in Memphis.

TuRNER Merritt continues to live in Atlanta,
Georgia, where he is so busy checking government con-
tracts and being District Scout Commissioner that he
hasn’t had time to find a wife yet. His scout work has
been very outstanding.

Hacan Minwnicu still lives in Bristol, Tennessee,
and is another of our bachelors. He is in the investment
securities business, and, like most of us, 1s looking for-
ward to a real reunion of our class.

PauL Mrxon is still in Marianna, Arkansas, where
he has a wife, two children and a nice home. He is in the
farm implement business.

Watrer H. Scorr makes a very brief report on him-
self: “Married, no children, practicing my profession in
Roanoke City, Virginia, and unfortunately messing in
politics slightly.”

I. M. QuILLEN is a member of the law firm of Quil-
len and Quillen, Burns Building, Lebanon, Virginia. He
has been practicing law in his home town since gradua-
tion and at present is serving as Commonwealth’s At-
torney for Russell County. He has been married for nine
years and has two small sons. He was married on New
Years Day; his first boy was born on Christmas Eve, and
the second on April Fool's Day.

1925

By Bruce Gannoway, Class Agent

Bos GoopricH is with the Franklin Limestone Com-
pany, and has been for 13 years. He is another who is
still a bachelor. Well, Bob, I waited a long time, and got
the best girl I ever knew, so maybe you'll have the same
fortune. You surely deserve it.

Harry Dawson has just bought a new home in
Bethesda, Maryland, to house his wife and three chil-
dren; Pollie, aged 4; Sissie, aged 3; and Harry, ITI, aged
six months. Harry is in the General Accounting Office,
as Claims Examiner. Bethesda is a suburb of Wash-
ington.

Dick Fritz, sales representative of the Tetley Tea
Company, in New Jersey, writes: ‘The great event in my
life this last year was a son, Richard Edward, born
August 4, 1940.” Thank you, Dick, that’s great news
any time.

JouN Hocker its the fellow we fathers had better get
in with, for he is practicing Pediatrics, and is well
equipped. Listen: “After leaving Washington and Lee,
I went to Miami during the boom, and stayed there a
year, then went to the University of Kentucky for my
M.A., and then on to Vanderbilt Medical School for four
years. After graduating there, four more years of hospital
training, and then finally in 1935 I began the practice of
my specialty, Pediatrics, here in Chattanooga,” The
Chattanooga. Alumni Association is going to have 8 or
10 boys at Washington and Lee this fall. John married a
Chattanooga girl, and they have a four year old daughter.

GrBsON WITHERSPOON has just completed a new
home in Meridian, Mississippi, 3810 Magnolia Drive,

Ee

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and invites us to drop in on him. (Write that down, fel-
lows). He suggests that after watching the success of
the ‘Tennessee system of football at Mississippi State, it
might be a good thing for Washington and Lee since the
Pitt and Notre Dame systems seem to work in reverse
for the Generals. He may have something there !

1926

C. Carter LEE is Commonwealth’s Attorney, Rocky
Mount, Virginia.

BurRKE WILLIAMSON is a member of the law firm of
Adams, Nelson and Williamson, 39 South LaSalle Street,
Chicago, Illinois. He is married and has a daughter,
Eleanor Hamill Williamson, born March 6, 1941. His

home is in Lake Forest, [linois.

1927

R. FT. (Bos’) Forme is a Sales Representative tor
the General Electric Supply Corporation, Louisville,
Kentucky.

W. H. Kipp is with the Foxboro Company, (Instru-
ments), Foxboro, Massachusetts.

Jack Lowe is Judge of the County Court, Tunica
County, Tunica, Mississippt.

1928

Hersert H. Burcer is now a captain with the 110th
Field Artillery.

CHariis A, STRAHORN, is assistant cashier of the
Winnetka ‘Trust and Savings Bank, Winnetka, I[linots.
He has a son born July 27, 1939, named John Sentman
Strahorn, [11;

Tuomas A. WILKINS has been living in New York
since his graduation and is working with the National

City Bank.
1929

R. C. CopENHAVER, JR., is office manager of the
Farmville Leaf Tobacco Company, Farmville, North
Carolina. He married Miss Mary Alice Beaman of
Farmville, in 1939.

Bitty Hinton is teaching in the department of
of psychology and education at Washington and Lee.

]. L. Locket? is a-member of the law fem ot An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell, Gulf Building,
Houston, Texas. He is one of the attorneys representing
the Missouri Pacific Rail System. He is married and

has a son, Joseph Lockett, III, who has already been en-
tered in the class of 1955.

FRANK PARKER is in the real estate business and

president of the Rose Cliff Company. His home is in
Waynesboro, Virginia. He has a family of three.

Water MILLNeR, JR., says he is still knocking
around in the newspaper business with the Baltimore
Sunpapers and hopes to get back to Lexington before he
gets too old.

1930

KENNETH KeEiL is district manager of the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Company, Gilbert-Gray Build-
ing, Athens, Alabama. When he wrote in May last, his
three-months-old daughter, Margo Ann, seemed to be of
paramount importance.

W. T. Atsop is superintendent of the Dixie Lime
Products Company, Ocala, Florida. The plant is out of
Ocala, but he has a home in town where he lives with
his wife and year-old daughter, Katherine.

Dawson HAtt is a member of the law firm of Whit
aker, Hall, Haynes and Allison, Hamilton National Bank
Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is married and
has two children, a boy nine, and a girl seven.

W. A. (“Brit”) ToMLINSOoN is vice-president Of
Tomlinson of High Point, ‘Designers and Makers of
Furniture, since 1900.”

HERBERT JAHNCKE 1s still working in the family
company, Jahncke Service, Inc. He has two sons whom
he expects to send to Washington and Lee when they are
ready to enter college.

I. I. Bostwick is still connected with The Travelers
Insurance Company, Mutual Building, Richmond, Vir-
einia.

1931

Britt Batrarp is still with the Ballard Fish and
Oyster Company, P. O. Box 1039, Norfolk, Virginia
He was married in September, 1940.

Dan SHERBY lives at 16033 Brewster Road, Forest
Fill, Cleveland, Ohio. He was recovering from an opera-
tion when his letter was written last May.

Ben D. Maxty has completed seven years as sales
man with the Campbell Soup Company. His home ad-
dress is 452 N. George Street, Millersville, Pennsylvania.

Grorck W. THAMES is a member of the law firm of
Hazard and ‘Thames, Atlantic National Bank Building,
Jacksonville, Florida.

| 20 |

  
 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1932

WILLIAM C. MULLIGAN is with the law firm of Wins-
ton, Strawn and Shaw, 38 South Dearborn Street, Chi-
cago. His home is at 4045 Forest Avenue, Western
Springs, Hlmois.

Dr. Lawrence J. Roose is at the Rockland State
Hospital, Orangeburg, New York. He says little about
himself except that he is again in school, studying psycho-
analysis at the Psychoanalytic Institute in New York.

Witt1am LovE WoopaLt is minister of the First
Presbyterian Church, 54 East Wilson Avenue., Girard,
Ohio. He received his A.B. from Wooster College, and
his Bachelor of Theology from Western ‘Theological
Seminary. He is married and has two children.

Ropert S. Hoy’ is assistant pharmacist at the Sta-
tion Hospital at Barksdale Field, Shreveport, Louisiana.
Bob was transferred to Barksdale Field from Camp Lee,
Virginia. He reports that Bob Seligman is in his bar-
racks and is in the I‘inance Department. Both of them are
privates, First Class.

1955

Joun Norton Horrman is with the J. C. Penny
Company in New York, in the buying end of the busi-
ness. He moved into a new home, South State Road,
Briarcliff Manor, New York, on December Ist. He has
been married for five years.

J. B. Wuarton, Jr., is practicing medicine under the
firm name of Drs. Wharton and Wharton, 213-18 Fx-
change Building, E1 Dorado, Arkansas.

Ropert R. SmiruH is in the private practice of medi-
cine in Ambler, Pennsylvania. He was recently appointed
to the medical staff of the Abington Memorial Hospital,
and Medical Consultant for the Intercounty Hospitaliza-
tion Plan, Inc. His residence address is 98 Bethlehem
Pike, Ambler, Pennsylvania.

HiLiiarD Harper is in the Post Office Department,
Washington, D. C. His residence address is 6208 Dun-
robbin Lane, Fairway Hills, Maryland.

CHARLIE SuTER is still in the insurance business in
Washington, D. C. He is married and has two daughters,
aged one and three. His offices are in the Union ‘Trust
Building.

1934

CHARLES WItson is affiliated with the Burlington
Mills Corporation in their rayon plant at Newton, North
Carolina. He is in charge of the electrical and mechanical

maintenance department. He has two boys, one eight
years and one two months old. His address is 120 West
6th Street, Newton, North Carolina.

JoHNNIE Barrie, Jr., 1s finishing his post-graduate
work in medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Hospital, 2045
East 90th Street, Cleveland, Ohio. He is married and
has a nine-months-old daughter.

Ropert W. Ruta was with the Baltimore Sun, Balti-
more, Maryland, in May, but expected to be called to the
service shortly.

TAYLOR JONES is practicing law in Jacksonville, Ilori-
da, with the firm of Rogers, Towers and Bailey, in the
Consolidated Building. He was married to Miss Nona
Johnson of Florida in August, 1940. Their home ad-
dress is 2565. Post Street, jacksonville, Florida.

ALpRED P. DENNISON is working at the Magazine of
Wall Street, 90 Broad Street., New York, being secre-
tary to that corporation as well as office manager and
personnel director. He married Gloria Wyckoff in 1935,
and they have a daughter, Patricia, born in 1939. They
live in Great Neck, Long Island.

1935

W. R. Spuar, Jr., is still engaged in the Blue Grass
seed cleaning, feed, field seed, and fertilizer business in
Winchester, Kentucky. Since leaving Washington and
Lee he has spent a week in the fall and a week in the
spring hunting and fishing in Rockbridge County and
keeps in close touch with the University.

HustER now lives at Beech
Spring Drive Apartments, Summit, New Jersey. He has

HaroLp HARRISON

a son nearly two years old.

Joun D. Sponr lives at 77 Fairmont Avenue, Chat-
ham, New Jersey. He is working for the Texas Company
in a sales capacity.

R. F. Cooprr, Jr., is working for the government.

His address is 2850, 27th Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

J. M. Hossir, Jr., is Deputy Collector of Internal
Revenue, located in Huntsville, Alabama, and has four
counties in which to gather the federal taxes.

1936

Harry ROBERTSON is a member of the Virginia State
Police, His address is R. F. D,-7, Stop 1/, Richmond,

Virginia.

[ 21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Herpert FE. (“Doc”) SLoan, Jr., is in the Surgical
Department, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Mary-
land.

1937

AL LUSTBADER was inducted into the army at Camp
Upton late in the summer, took his training in Coast
Artillery (anti-aircraft) at Fort Eustis, Virginia, and
was shipped to a mountain jungle post in Panama dur-
ing December. He was recently transferred to Head-
quarters Company of the Caribbean Defense Command.

GEORGE PILCHER, JR., received a commission in the
United States Naval Reserves, with the rank of Lieuten-
ant (junior grade). He expected to be a Vice-Admiral
within thirty days; didn’t want to be Admiral, as there
was no future to it. Since then he has been sitting at a
desk. He hasn’t been to Hawaii or fishing off the stern of
a cruiser. He is living at his home in Norfolk, 308 Co-
lonial Avenue.

James A. (‘Jimmy’) BLatock is practicing law in
the Lamar Building, Jackson, Mississippi. He is a mem-
ber of the Code Committee and Legislative Drafting
Committee of the Mississippi State Junior Bar Associa-
tion; is running the regular weekly Junior Chamber of
Commerce radio program. He says he is still single, foot-
loose, and fancy free.

Witiiam H. (“Bitv”) Roprnson opened law offices
in the Daily Republican Building in Monongahela, Penn-
sylvania, a year ago last December. He campaigned for
the legislature but lacked twenty-six votes of getting the
nomination. On January Ist he was appointed one of the
assistant district attorneys for Washington County. He
spends three days a week in Monongahela and three in
Washington.

JAMES PELHAM (“Doc”) BAKER had been city at-
torney for West Helena, Arkansas; but when he wrote
in June, he had been with the army for almost four
months.

S. TitForp Payne, 2315 Parkway, Louisville, Ken-
tucky, says: “It looks very much as if Uncle Sam and I
are going to become boon buddies very shortly via the
army. I suppose that next year the class correspondent
will either reach me in an army camp or inquire of St.
Peter as to my health.”

1938

LEONARD LEIGH? became associated with his father’s
law firm on graduation, and is still working for it. He
was expecting his Uncle Samuel to call him soon.

ee

CHARLIE SKINNER has been working with Sheffielg 2
I’arms Company, Inc., since 1938. He was married jp S
August, 1940, to his Finals date of 1938. They are living ‘
at 83-02 Cornish Avenue, Elmhurst, Long Island, New
York.

Witiiam H. Danrtét, Class Agent for 1938-A, was
living at the Seminole Hotel, 53 Kast Flagler Street,
Miami, Florida, but when we last heard was expected to
be in the service within a short time. Mail will be for-
warded to him from his Miami address.

Pau H. Darsig finished his third year in the School
of Medicine at the University of Rochester. He says he
is headed for the Naval Reserve Medical Corps.

1939

ALLEN SNYDER is at Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration. His address is Chase D-43,
Soldiers Field, Boston, Massachusetts.

CHARLES WILSON MIDELBURG is now an Fnsign. His
home address is 2108 Kanawha Street, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Roy Hocan is working for the Shell Oil Company,
doing specifically surface and near-surface geology in
search of ultimate oil fields. His address is Box 429,
Navasota, Texas.

HrENry Baxtpocr, whose home is in Lynchburg, has
been in Richmond, Virginia, since the first of the year,
where he is engaged in production accounting work for
the du Pont Company.

RicHarD Emery (“Dick”) Clements, Jr. when
writing in May, was in the service at camp Blanding,
Florida, but was trying to get transferred to the Air
Corps as a flying cadet.

1940

Witriam S. Burns is associated with the law firm
of Burns and Lively, Lebanon, Virginia, as of June 8th,
1940. He says he thoroughly enjoys practicing law, but
finds that the keen ambitions of his college days are
dulled somewhat in the fatalism of our times.

Joun C. Wuirt of Charleston, West Virginia, en-
listed in the army a month before the Selective Service
went into effect. He is stationed in Charleston at the
West Virginia Selective Service Headquarters, with the
title of Legal Adviser and is Active Editor of the West
Virginia Selective Service News.

LEsLIx D. Prick is associated with the firm of River-
comb and Mitchie, Kanawha Valley Bank Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

| 22 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

eee, ee

W. F. SAUNDERS is associated with the firm of Dun-
nington, Bartholow and Miller, 1 Wall Street, New York
City, New York.

Joun IF. O’Connor, 932 Prudential Building, But-
falo, New York, states that he is still out of the army
and still not married, but the further maintenance of the
status quo is rapidly becoming improbable. He was ad-
mitted to practice in New York state this past June, 1940,
and is associated with the firm of Shire and Jellineck.

Lea Booru, Class Agent for 1940-A, is doing pub-
licity work for the government in Washington. His ad-
dress is 3700 Cumberland Street, N.W., Washington,
D. C. He reports meeting many Washington and Lee
alumni on every street corner in Washington.

Homer D. Jones, Jr., was married to a Sweet Briar
eirl, Helen Cornwell, of St. Louis, on September 6. He 1s
working with the Koppers Coal Company, IKoppers
Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. His residence ad-
dress is 232 Linden Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.

Jack HunveEr was in the oil fields of Louisiana and
Texas for about six months last fall, winter, and spring ;
but when his letter was written in July, he was waiting
orders to report for training for the Army Air Corps.
He has passed his entrance examinations.

Hat WarTERSON is with F,. I. duPont de Nemours
and Company, Inc., Childersbure Works, P. ©, Box
270, Sylacauga, Alabama.

Howarpb Srirr is working with the Russell Playing
Card Company, New York, a subsidiary of United
States Playing Card Company of Cincinnati. His home
address is 1298 Grace Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

I*RED SHELLABARGER Was commissioned as an ensign
in the United States Naval Reserve on January 16th,
after four months in the Naval Reserve Mid-shipmen’s
School at Abbott Hall, on Northwestern University’s
Chicago campus.

ArtHur W. Mann, Jr., is now an Ensign in the
United States Navy. He took a three months course at
the Harvard Business School, Navy Supply School, and
received his commission about the middle of September.
Since that time has been Assistant Supply Officer.

LATIMER G. YouncG is now in his second year at
Johns-Hopkins Medical School. His address is 2906
Guilford Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

Ernest Woopwakrb, II, is with the 329 School Squad-
ron AC, Gardner Field, California. He is directing and

playing in the post 14-piece dance band; also playing the
organ for chapel services. He says he is having a good
time, generally.

Atonzo McKeEk WING, I11, is now in his junior year
in Ilorida University Law College, Gainesville, Florida.
His home address is 1219, 12th Street, North St. Peters-
burg, Florida.

AtEc Nico. THomson, Jr., was married July 11,
1941, to Eileen Caldwell of Newport, Virginia. He has
been working for the duPont de Nemours Company since
January 1, 1941. His mailing address is R. F. D. No. 1,
Stuart’s Draft, Virginia.

James Hucuson WIL Is is with Troop B, Camp
lorrest, Tennessee. His home address is 6922 Marshall
Avenue, Hammond, Indiana.

Joun CLark WHITE is a corporal in the army, Selec-
tive Service Headquarters, Charleston, West Virginia.
His title is Legal Assistant to the State Selective Service
Headquarters. He has a year’s service behind him. His
mailing address is 1548 Jackson Street, Charleston, West
Virginia.

W.L. Burner, Jr., has returned to his home at 2603
Seminary Drive, Alexandria, Virginia, after three months
in Chicago serving on the research staff of the railroads
in connection with the recent controversy over wages,
vacations with pay, and working rules. He says he would
like to see friends and fellow alumni who are in Wash-
ington. His office is at 706 Investment Building, Wash-
ington, D. C.

JoHN Winn Watson, Jr., is with the Armstrong
Cork Company, 1355 Market Street; Care Armstrong
Cork Company, San Francisco, California. His home ad-
dress is 38800 Monument Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

ALFRED RONALD THOMPSON is at present stationed at
the Naval Air Reserve Station, in Jacksonville, Florida.
His residence is 439 Lakeview Avenue, Rockville Centre,
Long Island, New York.

Harry B. Stopparp worked for the British Purchas-
ing Commission after graduation, and later received a
commission as an ensign in the Naval Reserve at the
Mid-shipmen’s School, Northwestern University, Chi-
cago. He has been on active duty for three months. His
home address is 361 Flm Avenue, Hersey, Pennsylvania.

Louis F. PLUMMER is a Second Lieutenant in Ar-
mored Infantry, Camp Polk, Leesville, Louisiana. He is
Assistant Regimental Supply Officer, and has also served
as Assistant Regimental T’ransportation Officer.

| 23 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ross V. HeErskEy is circulation manager of the

Waynesboro News, Waynesboro, Virginia.

BENJAMIN YouncG Morris is with the Celenese
Corporation of America, Narrows, Virginia.

PauL SLocums has been in training since July, 1941.
He is at present in the Army Air Corps, Basic Flying
School. His permanent address is 559 Lincoln Road,
Grosse Pointe, Michigan.

Henry B. WILDER is an Ensign, U. S. N. R. His
mailing address is 952, 34th Avenue, Rock Island, Ilinois.

WILLIAM JosEPH LONGAN is in his sophomore year
in the Dental School, Medical College of Virginia. His
home address is Park Lane, Glenbrooke Hills, R. F. D.

No. 2, Richmond, Virginia.

Herpert CirypE Wo tre, JR., is in the United States
Army. He asks that all mail be addressed to 1504 Hil-
dreth Avenue, Wheeling, West Virginia.

Benton McMittin WAKEFIELD, JR., is enrolled in
the Naval Supply Corps. He asks that all mail be sent to
his residence address, 804 Gillespie Place, Jackson, Mis-
SISSIPpI1. |

JEAN FRiEpDBERG, of Buechel, Kentucky, was com-
missioned an Ensign in the United States Naval Reserve
at exercises held at Abbott Hall, Northwestern Univer-
sity, on January 16, and married the same day.

JuLtius Boyp StompBock was inducted into the army
july. 8, at. Fort Riley, Kansas. His home. address is
Waynesboro, Virginia.

ARTHUR CLARENDON SMITH is in a Reserve Officer
training school. His residence address is 2949 Macomb
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Ropert WILLIAM RUSSELL is in the Purchasing De-
partment of the Bridgeport Brass Company, Bridge-
port, Connecticut. His mailing address is 90 Astoria
Avenue, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

Ropert Austin Rick is employed as a merchandising
executive trainee with Sears Roebuck and Company,
Frederick, Maryland. He says his address will probably
be changed often. His mailing address is now Box 137,
Frederick, Maryland.

FRANK C. BEDINGER, JR., was recently appointed a
Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and is now stationed at Omaha, Nebraska. His residence
address is 3431 Webster Street, Omaha, Nebraska.

 

CLARKE CLAYTON FostsEr now in the Air Corps with
change of location each ten weeks’ period. Home ad-
dress 20 Lincoln Place, Decatur, Illinois.

Lupton Avery is in the army, but wishes his ads
dress kept care of Chattanooga Glass Company, Chatta-
nooga, ‘lennessee.

1942

Wititiam B. McBrype is now Lt. W. B. McBryde,
His home address is ‘Troy, Alabama.

Witiiam McFappen Martin is in his senior year at
the University of Oklahoma. His permanent address is
1103 South 7th Street, Ponca City, Oklahoma.

ARCHER CLIFTON PUDDINGTON was inducted into the
army, May 13, 1941. He is a corporal in a motorcyeleé
platoon.

LEE D. PARKER is employed by Virginia Department
of Highways on survey party as Fngineering Aide. His
address is 313 Mallory Avenue, Hampton, Virginia.

Waitt N. ScHULTz is a senior at Northwestern
where he is Editor of the Daily Northwestern. His ad-
dress 1s 1007 Ridgewood Place, Highland Park, Illinois.

C. S. WHIPPLE is with Canadian Colonial Airways;
His permanent address is 25 Summer Street, Bristol,
New Hampshire.

Witiuis KENNETH MOLLE?TT is now a student at the
University of California at Los Angeles. His residence
address is 14103 Erwin Street, Van Nuys, California.

JacK EFarLE MANcH is a Second Lieutenant in the
United States Air Corps. His permanent address is 223
North Lewis, Staunton, Virginia.

GEORGE LoGAN Lucas 1s attending Missouri Univer-
sity and is on the varsity track team. His address is 302
Waugh, Columbia, Missouri.

STUART EDWARD LAWRENCE is with the Bliss Strawn
Distributing Corporation, Detroit, Michigan. His rest-
dence address is 7364 Kiplin Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

GEORGE Watson JAMES, TII, is a sophomore in the
Medical College of Virginia. His address is 2809 Grove
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia. His mailing address 18
4320 Ridgeway Avenue, Ashland, Kentucky.

CHARLES WarrREN JOHNSON completed nine months

training; rank sergeant, and has also completed exam-

ination for commusson as second lieutenant after at
tending three months Infantry training at Fort Benning;
Georgia.

[ 24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni Briets

LIEUTENANT (junior grade) Joun Henry Po te, ’28,
of 824 Royal Street, New Orleans, has been made
q full lieutenant in the U. S. Naval Reserve, it was an-
nounced on February 3.

Lieutenant Pole has been in active service with the
navy for several months, and prior to going on regular
duty was engaged in livestock and plantation farming at
Columbus, Mississippi.

The son of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Pole of Franklin,
Kentucky, he was formerly president of the Tiffin Na-
tional Bank i Tiffin, Ohio. He attended both Washing-
ton and Lee atid the University of Virginia. He is a mem-
ber of Sigma Chi fraternity, the Ohio Bankers’ Associa-
tion, and the American Bankers’ Association.

 

“Fient! Ficut! BLUE AND WHITE” was sung by the
Randolph Field Aviation Glee Club over Station KTSA,
San Antonio, Texas, as a tribute to Washington and Lee
eraduates and former students who are aviation cadets
at the “West Point of the Air

The song was heard on December 30, as a part of the
regular Tuesday program put on by the cadets.

 

Joun: L. Cars, “13, of Charlotte, North Carolina,
president of the Southern Dyestuff Corporation, recently
was named to membership on the dye-
stuff manufacturers industry advis-
ory committee in Washington. —

Mr. Crist is the only southern mem-
ber of the seven-member board, which
was founded by the bureau of in-
dustry advisory committee of the
War Production Board to represent
the entire dyestuff industry of the
country.

A graduate of Washington and Lee
in 1913 withea B.S. degree, Wir. Crist
recently was elected to membership
of the Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta
Kappa at the tapping exercises held
on the campus on January 19. His
son, John £). Crist, Jt, is a emesm
man at Washington and Lee this
year.

 

John L. Crist, ’13, and John L. Mc-
Chord, °18, Omicron Delta Kappa
Initiates, 1941.

Tot RevEREND Mr. WittrAm McFappin ALExX-
ANDER, '84, received a tribute from The New Orleans
Iicm expressed in the news columns of their paper on
December 30, 1941; and a silver loving cup on behalf of
the congregation of the Prytania Street Presbyterian
Church of New Orleans last summer for his 43 years of
Service,

Dr. Alexander, a native of Virginia, was directly re-
lated to the Alexander who assisted in the founding of
Liberty Hall.

He retired from active service last summer.

 

Joun J. D. Preston, formerly chairman of the
Public Service Commission of West Virginia, is now as-
sociated with the new law firm of Preston and Davis.
Offices are at 400 Union Building, Charleston, West Vir-
einia. Mr. Preston graduated with an A.B. degree in 1913
and: received ins T,1).-B. here in 1917,

GrorGE Harry VAntTa, 38, reported for Naval Avia-
tion Flight T'raining on December 18, 1941.

 

THe Reverend Mr. Holmes Rolston, Th.D., D.D.,
will be the Sprunt Lecturer for 1942, according to a bul-
letin released by the Union Seminary at Richmond, Vir-
ginia. A member of the class of 1920 at Washington and
Lee, he graduated with an A.B. de-
gree; last year, he was honored by his
university with the degree of Doctor
of Divinity.

Prominent in the South as a theol-
ogian and author, Dr. Rolston has been
for the past two years associate editor
of the Presbyterian of the South.

“The Social Message of the Apostle
Paul’ has been selected as the sub-
yect. of the. 1942 Sprunt Lectures
which will consist of seven individual
addresses.

Joun MeEriptH GRAHAM, Jr., 35,
son of John M. Graham, 94, has
been elected to the vice-presidency
of the National City Bank of Rome,
Georgia.

 

 

 

 

