 

r
=

aanant

ial

Alu

een » ore

ake

Magaz.

a's

lversl

Washington and Lee Un

, 1946

aw
ea)
ea)
=
fx]
>
O
a

7
. ¥) Tt "

Hii ii | Hitt
i i site

_ -

mney WHHHHHHH

 

 

‘etek
es ‘ae:

 

L749

 

4 x pra .
BY An NE

      

 

) ~e: Sas

\\

         
                   

~
., = a

. e P : SS “SV !
> | = SON wy
id Re CSSA

ERAS STE WSS SUEY | 5

     

i
MJ
* ALN -
SESS cx
a x rae nt
[oS Sp
- | Mees YY SROG

‘949

 

 

Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia,
34 Peachtree

Baltimore—Louis L. Tignor, °32, Maryland
Trust Building

Birmingham—John ¥. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge Sale,
'24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, '27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
noad, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, '38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., '41, Park
Road

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap,

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘°25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C. T. Dawkins, '09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Mimai, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Wathen Knebelkamp, '21, 701 Sun-
nyside Drive

Lynchburg—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., '30, Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, '31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—F. Gilbert Swink, '35, National Ban«x
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., '41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
treet

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Stuart Sanders, ’31, Sanders Broth-
ers Paint Company

Roanoke—William B. Bagby, WDBJ

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—William C. Edwards, '32, 5142 West-
minster Place

Tri-State—Elliott Vawter, ’09, First Hunting-
ton National Bank Building, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., °38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D.C.—Randolph D. Rouse, ‘39,
Valley Vista Apts., Belmont Road, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

Vol. XXII NOVEMBER, 1946 No. 1
Fiditor.......:....:. ...Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President.............. Tuos. S. KirKPATRICK, 1913
Vice-Prestdent..........c..0...05- P. C. WuIttLock, 1929
Secretary............. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TV CASUNET Eo A Dr. Rein Wurre, 1919

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun W. Drye, 1920

P. C. Wuirtock, 1929
Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913

Leon W. Harris, 1915

Dr. Ret Wuirte, 1919

Amos A. BoLEen, 1937
LAURENCE W. WItson, 1910
Henry P. Jonnston, 1929

OUR COVER:

Eighty-two of the 124 sons of alumni now students at
Washington and Lee


The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Problem and a Policy

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Most earnestly I wish to explain to every alumnus
the situation that has arisen during this educational
emergency, a situation that will probably continue for
three or four years, and the policy which has been an
inevitable conclusion. As always I welcome comment or
suggestions from the alumni.

aR om ae

The last twelve months of academic history, as I re-
ported to the trustees, “have been so utterly without pre-
cedent or parallel that I can think of no appropriate
adjective except fantastic. The pendulum of academic
destiny, if this figure is permissible, has swung in the
widest arc | have ever known.”

I meant to say that a year ago we had only a fraction
of a student body; we had at least a third of our faculty
off on governmental duty; we had most student activi-
ties suspended or reduced to a shadow ; we had the larger
part of our facilities absorbed by the great Army School
of Personnel Services. Before the session was half over,
however, something like a tidal wave hit us.

The primary impact of that tidal wave was in the
flood-tide of applications from prospective students. As
a matter of fact, we were committed to about 600 of our
own students, away on military duty and anxious to re-
turn. We had accepted during the war years possibly 100
more students with unimpeachable papers, to enter when
active service was over. Thus, even after we enlarged
the student body by about 200 men, we had not more
than 400 vacancies.

This flood-tide of applications may be thus stated:
we had more applications than in the last ten—probably
the last twenty—years combined. For every vacancy, we
had fifteen or twenty boys clamoring for admission.

* * * *k x

It came to pass that we were forced into a painful
position. We were compelled to decline hundreds, or may-
be thousands, of meritorious applicants. Some of these

were supported by admirable recommendations—in many
cases from alumni. Eventually we were forced to de-
cline even the sons of our own alumni—boys that in
normal circumstances would have absolutely “top pri-
ority.”” But it was out of the question for us to accept
more boys than we could house or teach or serve.

[ offer this explanation to alumni—and to other
friends, including many of our most respected “par-
ents’’—whose request or commendation could not be
honored this session.

I deliberately used that word painful. It is not a pleas-
ant experience for any University, dedicated to the
training of youth, to decline thoroughly worthy boys.
It is positively painful to decline those boys when they
bring the warm commendation of our alumni.

k * * * x

We value the interest of our alumni and the judg-
ment of our alumni in all respects, and particularly in
this matter of the selection of students. We know that
the essential character of the University depends first
of all upon the admission of the right boys. We have no
wiser counselors in this respect, and no counselors whom
we appreciate more, than our own alumni.

* * * *k x

The emergency in higher education—that is, the huge
volume of applicants—will continue for several years.
Ts “~
lhe February enrollment was closed about December 1.
Applications for next fall are coming in at the rate of
twelve or fifteen a day. We expect to make the selection
about April 1.

This is my appeal to alumni and to the friends whose
counsel in these matters we earnestly covet. If you have
a son, or a young friend, who wants to come to Wash-
ington and Lee and is worthy of coming to the fraternity
which you yourself constitute, please enter his name
with us as soon as possible. We want to give fullest con-
sideration to your recommendation. Please act quickly.

i ¢

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The 1946-477 Session Opens

By Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students

 

schools. With the School of Law in operation, between 200
and 225 married students will be in attendance.

A geographical break-down of the 1003 enrolled in Sep-
tember shows the same trend that has been observed in all
colleges, that veterans attend colleges nearer home. The re-
sult has been that the percentage of attendance from the
Southern bloc of states, including such border states as Mary-
land and West Virginia, has increased from a pre-war 60 per
cent to almost exactly 70 per cent. The attendance from Vir-
ginia, for example, has jumped to 29 per cent from 21 per cent
in 1941.

Attendance has, of course, been sharply affected by several
factors. The practical circumstances limiting enrollment to
an acceptance of about one applicant in eighteen have been:
student housing, particularly for married students; laboratory,
rather than class room, facilities; the scarcity of faculty per-
sonnel supply; and housing for additional faculty. An es-
pecially fine piece of work was done by Henry Ravenhorst, ’35,

 

 

First University Assembly

The opening of Washington and Lee in September, 1946,
has been marked by tides of enthusiasm such as few persons
on the campus remember. With practically every academic
department expanded to pre-war size or larger, extra-cur-
ricular activities in vigorous operation, and not only the larg-
est number of new faculty members and new students in
history, but likewise the largest total enrollment, the Uni-
versity faces every prospect of a great session in its history.

The concrete facts of enrollment statistics will probably
be of interest to alumni. 1003 men had enrolled previous to the
beginning of the work in the School of Law on 17 October.
The Law enrollment of around 160 will bring the total figure
to approximately 1163. Of the enrollment of 1003, exclusive
of Law, 720 were veterans and 283 non-veterans. Around 450
of the 1003 were men with pre-war attendance at Washing-
ton and Lee. 378 new men enrolled in the 1003, with around
175 of this number freshmen directly from high or preparatory

 

 

Making dates for Fraternity Rushing

 

as Housing Administrator in locating and supplying sufficient
housing for students. For single students completely ade-
quate accommodations were provided. The completion of
the pre-fabricated houses will greatly alleviate the almost des-
perate situation of the housing for married students.

The fraternities have rendered outstanding service in ex-
panding their rooming and dining room facilities and, with
the record number of old men returning and new men enter-
ing, have, in almost every instance, reached record chapter
enrollments. A factor causing much concern is the consider-
able number of new men who, in pre-war days, would un-
doubtedly have been pledged to fraternities but for whom,
at present, there is literally no room. The number is being
decreased, and it is hoped that adjustments may be achieved
during the session.

At the present writing it does not seem feasible to in-
crease the total enrollment in February, but a limited num-
ber of new men will be selected so far as withdrawals during
Jim Hitz, right, meets Bruce Woodruff, both Sons of Alumni the session offer a certain number of places.

Lad

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Housing Problems at the University

By Henry L. Ravenhorst, ’35, Housing Administrator

 

View of “Splinterville” across the Nelson Street Bridge

 

Few people would have been surprised if on the morning
of September 20 they had found an army of students housed
in an array of pup-tents on our campus and in hammocks
swung between trees. For it was on that day the registration
of the largest enrollment in the history of Washington and
Lee began, and the skeptics had a field day of it wondering
where all the men would be housed.

Providing accommodations for a student body swelled to
over 200 more than the pre-war high, in an already crowded
community, posed quite a problem—and this was not simpli-
fied when it was learned that instead of the 5 of 10 married
students normally enrolled there would now be 200.

 

Housing the unmarried students proved to be the lesser
of the problems. A survey was made of all existing facilities
at the University and, in line with this, the capacity of the
dormitory was increased (two men were assigned to some
former one-man rooms and three men to some former two-
men rooms), dormitory reading rooms were converted into
sleeping quarters, and space above the old dining hall (now
used by the University Supply Store) and rooms in the gym-
nasium were converted into student accommodations. Those
fraternities that did not have enough members to fill their
houses “adopted” non-members in order to utilize all space.
Kven the third floor of the Corner Grill, which alumni will
remember as “The Corner” or as “Jimmy Hamilton’s,” was
given a facial and a transformation and now provides ade-
quate accommodation for 15 men.

In order to provide rooms for the men who could not call
any of the above-mentioned “home,” a survey was made of
all facilities within a 15-mile radius of Lexington. A house-
to-house canvass was completed, and the need for accommo-
dations was widely publicized. The aid of the newspapers,
civic clubs, churches and veteran organizations was solicited
and the response from the people of Lexington, Buena Vista,

and environs was most gratifying. An “ace-in-the-hole” was
provided by converting an army barracks (located in the
rear of the gymnasium and used by the Army School for
Personnel Services while the army held sway at W. and L.,
during the war) into accommodations for about 40 men. It
was not necessary to fill this so it will await the newcomers
arriving for the second semester.

Kfforts to solve the problem of providing accommodations
for married veterans and their families began shortly after
V-J Day and actual construction of apartments was started
by the FPHA in June. On November 4 the first married vet-
erans moved into “Davidson Park,” a project of 50 apart-
ments located on East Nelson Street between the bridge and
the Lambda Chi and Z. B. T. fraternities. The illustration on
this page gives an idea of the type of buildings being erected.
Kach apartment has a private front and back entrance and
consists of two bedrooms, living room, kitchen and bath. The
build:nes, although temporary in nature, are well-constructed
and well-equipped, each kitchen being complete with cabinets,
gas stove with oven, ice box, and an automatic hot-water
heater; heat is provided by a gas space heater for each apart-
ment. Basic items of furniture are provided and even linen
and bedding are available to those desiring them. Tenant
activities in regard to operation and improvement will be
encouraged in order that all the occupants will be able to en-
joy the maximum amount of pleasure from their new home—
this will be the first home for many of the veterans who have
only recently been reunited with their families. There are 23
children in the fifty families to occupy these houses and the
stork is hovering overhead ready to make visits to several
more. The rent for these apartments is $25 a month, which
includes all utilities, with a small extra charge for furniture.
There is also a provision to adjust the rent for those unable
to pay the above amounts, which will enable those whose in-

 

One of the Pre-fabs for Married Veterans

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Ea

Three freshmen sons of Sam Pruitt,
Left to right—Dick, Jim and Bill

 

come is solely that provided under the “G. I. Bill” to at least
break even in their expenses.

Another unit providing 48 additional apartments is under-
way by the FPHA and is located near the Lexington High
School. It should be ready around the first of the year. Both
projects are being built by the FPHA, the University getting
title on the buildings when completed. They will be operated
by the University under direction of FPHA; any profit from
operation will revent to the U.S. Government. If operated
at a loss, the University will bear the cost. When the housing
emergency is declared to be at an end, the University must
dismantle and remove these structures.

Upon completion of these 98 apartments, the housing
problem should be considerably eased, that is, if Cupid doesn’t
prove too effective in his aim at the still unmarried students.

Student Sons of Alumni

The opening of the Fall session, 1946, found 124 sons of
Alumni registered as students, this being the largest number
of second generation Washington and Lee boys in the Uni-
versity at one time. It is interesting to note that the fathers
represent classes from 1893 to 1927. 1914 leads with 10 sons,
1911 second, with 9. Dr. Sam Pruitt, ’11, has three sons in
the freshman class, an older son, Samuel O., Jr., having grad-

uated in 1941.
Son Father

Rilale! Tod wriek Mo iiss ain bien oa ioiencqeecitscesyate Edwin G. Adair, °15
PGR DAG TE ivoccthci ch cnietaiect es otocdatiacrntAuteatel Alex Travis Allen, ’23
Apperson, Charles: Lic:........cc.ccccccsccocteoee Harvey B. Apperson, 713
IRGC OLIGO Be. Pia valapasvinserrevad edoccueeds Charles F. Bagley, ’07
DT IROE, Tiss Be des hectare este eis duehitehtnatans Henry N. Barker, °14
SO Bee Frag aako nose kse cheb tu nbigace cd sgiveats dates tntbaveods) Roger J. Bear, °14
PEELS BEST RAT y Pb gipatlnsedh sh cabot ps Ohedeaibe sreepguieaatevinal *|. Brian Bell, ‘11
Benton, Jesse Wilson, JT... Jesse Wilson Benton, °19

 

Son Father
Braeetie oo Wieden had Frank W. Brower, ’16
PD FIRING BB crac ctess hse ck te cckasthacs cep ea Homer S. Bryant, ’20
ES GEOG i Ur RENE Fie Bliss pe tesan he snocksoncghaubsetspoboms Frank P. Burton, ’14
ROMAEEIRL, WHC, Bice he caaiy aosccngne accep desupseb oucdeccmachbeeee *W.R. Burton, °17
CNG IL tbe AT xia: chs dcksbcscdenesesories Edmund D. Campbell, ’18
Carmichael, JOR. 26........0cccccsesisecseees H. St. G. T. Carmichael, ’99
Carmichael, Stanrod...........:.......0.... H. St. G. T. Carmichael, ’99
Carr, Robert Howell, Jr................s0000 Robert Howell Carr, ’23
CORNEA MRI RR WERCTL NE iin ndes.cdisew <pdeasccyes C. Lynch Christian, *16
OT, PO Ie a eB ec ks coecnskeokescipevsvens Robert Walker Cole, ’21
Cook, John Wilson, III.........00000.. John Wilson Cook, Jr., °19
Cosby, W. Randolph, Jr..................00 W. Randolph Cosby, ’26
COREG AT AR EN Ne sae Rea acs alae daa toc schev in ceniarhbeees Joe C. Hobson, ’20
Oo PCN Bisel toch rots stein dereh univ dpc eoes -cpnetevehitee William J. Cox, 717
CaS: Cres Pe i 5 cassia ciaueestas canis George L. Coyle, *12
Ce I ass ar ast arcied sodespob Senko George L. Coyle, °12
CVGEE  RUTM aA IB Baib abel peccnncacctubsecadvvascbon’ Ryland G. Craft, °13
C rantierd> FRCS SA PP scicccsttiodcecvieie ccidices James A. Cranford, ’22
CRGERBUE aie ass a Bit inter ctsnge denn casomnaoeiaannete R. O. Crockett, ’02
DD WOT EE Fe Baio) Boch das thevankcastvabcceedcocecctd *R. B. Davenport, ’24
Davi As BE RAS rate po ine chien B. A. Davis, Jr., ’20
Dawledtia <3. Oye. Baebes Srcceiths Mata O. C. Dawkins, Jr., ’27
Devine: i Gest ciicuudiietanischclaisbona Dr. C. J. Devine, 716
Hae Se 4 Desi igechins dcopeubacainthsaipteosnl teats J. M. Farrar, Jr., ’14
Faulkner; ‘THOmGsa... i: /cai cc ciadhi.ipness James M. Faulkner, 717
Fellers, Stanford L,., Jr............. Judge Stanford L. Fellers, ’13
Flannagan, Francis W........... Hon. John B. Flannagan, Jr., ’07
Festebie. “Gas AAs 16S 5 co cianid.ccardeeee Gus A. Fritchie, 719
Glosatiw: Charles: Sic Jf cdicecscstskdcatcsutatahas C. S. Glasgow, ’09
(Taste, - Franeig 0 65s ioiikc a ascscctcecos ue C. S. Glasgow, ’09
SOBs A OMOIOE,, AT Lscessdacsecugntdvchsbcdchoothexsehedocbaries Carter Glass, Jr., 7°13
Godwin, James Matthew, Jr......... James Matthew Godwin, ’08
SRM ES? WY, te. EW cto otoiecashabeacteaaneeebeiins C. W. Gooch, Jr., 715
Grosvenor, C. Niles, ITTI................ C. Niles Grosvenor, Jr., ’12
CMR MNOAPED S ORE LOCUS Ae ic lic sespevectbadpaeecdan Dr. David V. Guthrie, ’04
Et aeetaasy ae 8 OW os Ue is ccsi iacintiasienbathooash James W. Harman, ’04
Harman, Samuel Laird...................000 James W. Harman, ’04
PaaS s Lie Oi WW oT tac; ascksssccscsesteovitactdsaaiette Leon W. Harris, 715
et entree 25 Wick ha anaes George E. Haw, ’04
RASS FORGE Cd rei checithendgs a nuts etapa evepdeaealite James M. Hitz, ’14
Holland, William S....................... Robert Edward Holland, °16
Hubbard, Charles © C............0:..c0083 Dr. T. Brandon Hubbard, ’06
FA PRBOG, RVG 05:59 Easy bites ck epee bcuashin tunes Richard W. Hynson, ’08
Fames, Fe Billi bie cianmnmeenie R. Bleakley James, ’22
FORD OR, WF ag) Bak oderncoicancohasninnanne Frederick S$. Johnson, 711
Kaylor, Howard............... ..Omer T. Kaylor, ’11
WRITS CAT Ti in S vencthagrctcss tener Riseateleabamees Omer T. Kaylor, ’11
Keebler, “ROUErE Gi oB ri ciccad. hoeaeanredtceveun Robert S. Keebler, ’08
Bee EF; WVBR PB ivsvechesahckondssagh bitho tinge enblaoatiad H. Wise Kelly, 713
iter 3 WV, COR Tae oo Reccescatoluovassrceneedvaness W. Courtney King, ’19
Leé,. Robece By. EV GAs pentiescedenantine Dr. G. Bolling Lee, 793
EBACE ae Rr 5d teceeedab dp ki parh ids dct abghaibeatonies E. B. Lemon, 711
Salve: ratte STi dnc Fac akedetaeseckets adaabotetaied Frank Love, ’21
MceGhntécks OO. Wao Ti. iitincs Sia eseead Oliver W. McClintock, ’23
McClure, M. Thompson......Rev. James A. McClure, D. D., ’99
BEORC OG <1... W¥adialecasicn tect binciceharl tlio Kenton H. McCoy, 715
Me Donald, “RODert | Oiisciiivissecdecacsectencacensiont *O. L. McDonald, 712
BEE OO Be BV. I Savitike clint pirating Madison Dryden McKee, ’10
McKenzie, William L,, Jreu........cccccesees W. Lynn McKenzie, ’20
MECN Ger, Selden’ Sag. Fi sicssGinsiccescsccuydevacaers Selden S. McNeer, ’16
Maynard, William H., Jr...............000 William H. Maynard, ’26
Millet J. Maurice; Ji .ciscaiv.custicccgeoian J. Maurice Miller, 15
MOORE TBE ik sitaselacatevees Dr. Chalmers H. Moore, ’09
Morphy, Pael.J. BS Ftindaiun Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy, ’14
Myers, Wentworth F., Jr.............000 Wentworth F. Myers, ’20
Newtor, Fi: Bhag J ks. cccssdecsicad scovthechetiiemnaas J. M. Newton, 713
Ogst; Wilh Hie Pris ..45.diae Judge William H. Oast, 715

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Son Father
CPST BUCS oonscsabek dk adinceits-thanst Petasedaaeesvedosss Dean Owens, ’21
Patterson, Robert G.u................008 Dr. C. Houston Patterson, *19
Paxton, Matthew W., IIL.............. Matthew W. Paxton, Jr. ’18
PCy ROT Fits te octosnetnda inci sriscoe Woodward Peyton, ’96
aROL + Wa IONE BL AS ciebi kebieksed, beticeseahanne Dr. Herman I. Pifer, ’18
Pleasants, Enos Rogers, Jr........... *Enos Rogers Pleasants, °18
POW? ARGS OW Fig! JP iensisinicccsshedetascsdcdesess *Andrew J]. Power, ’04
Prisitt, \ Fame Bio asc scuctioniciitescrieien cess Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, *11
Pritt RICnane 7 chennai ni eo: Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, *11
Pere AY ONE 5 Fons ska se de dactaeete Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, 711
PURE RU Eee a thas. aa cach pctebeeken Peaposs haves Getasncasten ape Junius W. Pulley, °13
PRAIA yes 5790 a Ree WEI cade otk ties cache vune'c ctunebcd J. Frank Rushton, ’23
Sachs, Stamleriiss aach Gea eicwlcnges Herman A. Sacks, ‘11
OM be Pies ea legs pcbphcibcdh Ueeoee a babes ocelcascee ck nabae vibes Elwood H. Seal, °16
SULTS CONN. FOC LE FE iii Scatascasivbevetcondacivcies Joe L. Silverstein, ’22
RL MOT ROSIE ONG ices bctct a pocesteontmccecivaies *Sam Silverstein, °17
ELV PTO REI eI ae Bl staciscnevadss conden Git die iatinease *Sam Silverstein, °17
SOPRA EAs. Pee fis 5 <:) Masatestes eee desobicck trac inkbs ccarcoseaect escent Ray S. Smith, °14
OLEMIS LONE RR 8 ir acsas i deseguoheisaveb nonce John H. Sorrells, ’18
Spindle, Richard B., Jr... Judge Richard 8B. Spindle, ‘06
Stephenson, Roscoe B., Jr... Roscoe B. Stephenson, ’08
Stewarts Lease Te nas cansndcccepsekssesseaests Dean B. Stewart, 718
SRNR ON WES pis, cue eehersinge eRe aakicdes attaaee *Frank Cover Stipes, °19
BiriClel es, EeAOR WOE oa sicinsincrdaceniesdeocdsachans John O. Strickler, ’27
SC | 1 NSD. 5k Racritetind eckauie mcunans John S. Stump, Jr., °17
Sutherland, Horace F., Jr.....*Judge Horace F. Sutherland, °17
T OGY: ERR oa as, Skee he ieee Bland Terry, '14
Townsend, William H................... Fred DuPre Townsend, ’20
Trammels-8is "Bo Sit isiiina Herman K. Trammell, Jr., 23
Trigg VV ae We i BRS, os Kish rastetcetntens William W. Trigg, °12
Tein le, Faria ick Hoiceascke dace tte \. Dawson Trundle, ’04
Tucker, J. Randolph, Jr................. John Randolph Tucker, ‘00
Tuckes,“Phronmias : WW Radiciaiti denise Dorr M. Tucker, ’24
Vicars, Joseph McFarland.......... Marshall Walker Vicars, ’23
Wales; Lawrence Bij Jriiiiiscccii ca Lawrence B. Wales, °15
WV GEMCIY oes Wink _TObeisisiepetepearestestcees *Dr. John W. Warner, ’03
Watts, Matthew. Wi ainsccieniphiaceteck Joe Blackburn Watts, °12
White -Biiller BB. Jrcaian. osnnci ae Millar B. White, ’25
WH Eire 2 VV tilemhaan Bassi esi cn kh Sanceeccunastesdotcans Millar B. White, ’25
WTAE re ia Rata chcepaite cpcnecicncccs Judge Kennon C. Whittle, °14
We MAREN, EI. Pare simi hccoh zs tncie pdecndnvualichoha Walter Jeter Wilkins, ’14
WU SEIAIINS, F800, ios cass csoateonenseh>s Williams A. Williams, Jr., ’22
W said | DRC Ex, . Kameda cjockctestedvicee *Stanley Williams, °18
VV IEIMSIOOOE APACE TORE 5 JP svissiesapstestavverstvevind Adrian Williamson, 713
WV Gigs TEE ae vide Ait cist arches ssdoutassnzcenhcaakt James Arthur Wood, ’24
Woodriihs 2euce Be ite Sivoan Bruce F. Woodruff, ’16
Worrell.” Rav Bascal *Edgar Watson Worrell, ’01
Yanktee; Raehard: Ma, Fae. cc cicss ce ecteakex Richard M. Yankee, ’26
V Slee. meme Gh his icin cased epecccooeie otic Damon G. Yerkes, °12

* Denotes alumnus deceased

FOUR MEMBERS OF THE VIRGINIA COURT
OF APPEALS W. & L. GRADUATES

When Judge A. C. Buchanan, LL.B., ’14, of the Tazewell
Circuit Court takes his seat on the Virginia Supreme Court,
four of the seven judges on the bench will be graduates of
the Washington and Lee Law School.

Justice Henry W. Holt, LL.B. ’88, automatically becomes
Chief justice as the senior member of the court when Justice
Campbell retires.

Other members of the court who attended the Washington
and Lee Law school are Justices Herbert B. Gregory, LL.B.
11, and John W. Eggleston, LL.B. 10.

 

Judge Daniel K. Sadler, LL.B. ’09

Daniel K. Sadler is now in his third eight year term as
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New Mexico. Born
at Paris, Arkansas, October 28, 1882, he graduated from the
University of Arkansas with the Bachelor of Arts degree in
1906 and in 1909 received the Bachelor of Laws degree from
Washington and Lee. He went to New Mexico in 1916 and
after many vears as a practicing lawver was elected to the
Supreme Court from his home in Raton, Colfax County, in
1930 and re-elected in 1938. He is married and has two sons,
Daniel K., Jr., and Robert Granville, both of whom saw
service in World War II.

 

DR. PHILLIPS PUBLISHES
IMPORTANT TEXTBOOK

An authoritative text book on industrial and commercial
geography has just been published by Henry Holt and Co.,
written by Dr. M. Ogden Phillips and Dr. J. Russell Smith.
The new text book covers developments in mechanical pro-
gress, facts concerning minerals and basic materials in manu-
facture, agriculture and raw materials, world trade and trade
routes. Dr. Phillips, Professor of Economics and Commerce
at Washington and Lee, has been on leave of absence from the
University, while engaged in this work.

PROFESSOR GEORGE JACKSON
GRANTED LEAVE OF ABSENCE

Professor George S. Jackson has been granted a one-year
leave of absence to undertake an important job for the fed-
eral government. Mr. Jackson came to Washington and Lee
in 1931, after having received his B.A. from Bowdoin College
in 1927, his M.A. from Harvard, and having taught for a year
at the University of Tennessee.

wae

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the Campus

With the graduation of 29 students at the completion of
the 1946 summer session, 21 from the Academic School on
August 30, and eight from the Law School on September 21,
Washington and Lee’s war-time era came to an end, and
“business-as-usual,” only a little more so, began with the
opening of the 198th session. The largest enrollment in the
history of the school, greatly enhanced, both numerically and
socially by some 250 wives of returning veterans, has made
the scramble for housing facilities strongly resemble a hard-
fought football game.

Freshman caps on the heads of non-veteran newcomers,
conventional civilian dress on the campus, pleasant greetings
from strange faces, books parked along the sidewalks and
under trees, indicate that we are getting back to normal. Never
in the history of Washington and Lee has there been a finer
looking group of students assembled here. The majority of
them look a little more mature and more serious and well
they may for many of them are war veterans and have seen
hard and strenuous days. Washington and Lee is looking to
these returnees to see that the traditions of the school are
maintained on the high level of pre-war years.

Ending the first fall rushing period since 1942, Greek letter
fraternities pledged 297 of the eligible men on the campus,
swelling to 754 the totals of fraternity men here. Owing to
the housing shortage most of the fraternities were unable to
pledge as many men as desired

Publications

In 1943 the publication of The Ring-tum Phi, Washington
and Lee’s campus paper, since 1897, slowly came to a stopping
place. With the greatly reduced student body and almost
cessation of student activities, it was reluctantly discontinued.
Publication of The Ring-tum Phi was succeeded by The
Columns. In its beginning it was small; hardly deserving the
name of “newspaper,” but enrollment was also small, hardly
deserving the name of student body. As the war turned in
favor of the allies, however, and the students began to trickle
back in growing numbers, The Columns proportionately in-
creased in size and qual-
ity until its final edition
on August 23 of this
year, when The Ring-
tum Phi again went in-
to action.

The Southern Colle-
gian, Washington and
Lee’s quarterly literary
and humor magazine
will resume publication
early in the fall.

The Washington and
Lee Handbook, pub-
lished by the Christian
Council before the be-
ginning of the school
year as a guide to help
acquaint the new stu-
dents with the campus,
its traditions and the
University, has again

 

made its appearance and is a most useful and attractive
booklet.

a eee

The bigger and better University Supply Store is now in

operation in the old Dining Hall, which was used during the
war as an officers’ mess. The building has been completely
rennovated and is meeting a long-felt need as a place where
faculty and students may stop in for a coke and a chat be-
tween classes. Cap’n Dick says that he expects to install an
up to date fountain there as soon as he is able to purchase
the equipment. One of the greatest advantages of the new
store is in the space made available for the dispensing of
books, which with the increase in the number of students, had
become a serious problem in the old Co-op in Keid fiail.

Rk Re eS

The new director of Religious Work and advisor to the
Christian Council is James Ligon Price, Jr., A.B. ’36, of Chase
City, Virginia. Serving as a Chaplain in the U.S. Navy, he
was released from the service in June 1946, after having com-
pleted foreign duty at the Pearl Harbor Marine Barracks.
He plans to teach at least one related subject in addition to
his duty as Director of Religious Work. The Council looks
forward to renewal of Religious Emphasis Week, vesper ser-
vices and various community projects. Receptions have been
given by the local churches for students of the various de-
nominations.

S08 5 8 Ee

The University Board of Trustees has authorized the
construction of an apartment building for use primarily by
members of the faculty. The building will consist of from
twelve to fifteen apartments, four to be of the five room type
and the remainder three room suites.

ov. 8 ee

One married student has solved the housing problem by
bringing his house with him. To the amazement and envy of
the apartment-seekers in the ranks of married students,
Clarence Moore, of Petersburg, Virginia, arrived with his
bride and a 99 passenger bus, which he has converted into a
home. Purchasing the
bus from the surplus
property list at Camp
Pickett, he drove it to
Lexington, parked it at
the site of the old field
house, near the tennis
courts. Originally built
as a New York World’s
Fair sight-seeing coach,
it was purchased by the
Army at the beginning
of the war and used to
haul defense workers.
It is reputed to be the
largest passenger bus in
the world.

* BS ok

a - B ~~
ee Se Ph
SS ees
J

So P Be

bd
*

The color-sound mov-
ie of Washington and
Lee now being made by
Charles T. Chapman,
Inc., Evanston, Illinois,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

will give a complete history of the University from its be-
ginning as Augusta Academy in 1749, up to the present time.
The first shots for the film were made during Finals this
spring and the busy campus scenes and colorful autumn
foliage of the surrounding mountains are being made this
month. The film will be 900 feet in length and it will take 25
minutes to show the reel. It will be used for alumni and pro-
motional purposes.
Phi Beta Kappa

Dr. A. W. Moger, secretary of the Washington and Lee
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa announced the election and induc-
tion of the following students and alumni to the honor society;
Carter Glass, III, Henry H. Schewel and Marion G. Heat-
wole, and alumni, Judge Dozier A. DeVane, LL.B. ’08, Fed-
eral Judge of the State of Florida, and Judge Walter G. Rid-
dick, ’05, Federal Judge of the State of Arkansas.

Reorganization of Various Campus Activities

Graham-Lee and Washington literary societies have been
re-activated, as have been the Glee Club, the Forensic Union,
and the Troubadours, and the various honor societies such as
“13,” honorary junior society, the two sophomore societies,
White Friars, Pi Alpha Nu, and the secret society of Sigma,
are rumored to be reviving.

Award

Dr. Francis P. Gaines has been awarded His Majesty’s
Medal for Service in the Cause of Freedom by King George
VI of England. The announcement follows:

“His Majesty’s Ambassador presents his compliments to
Dr. Francis P. Gaines, and has the honor to inform him that
the King has been pleased to award him His Majesty’s Medal
for Service in the Cause of Freedom.

“Lord Inverchapel would like to offer his personal con-
gratulations on this well merited award.

“Owing to the shortage of metal in the United Kingdom
some time may elapse before the insignia of the decoration
can be sent, but it is hoped that the appropriate ribbon will be
available shortly.”

Lee Memorial Service

Following a custom of many years, Dr. Gaines, members
of the Board of Trustees, faculty and students joined in a
memorial service in the University Chapel on October 12th,
to commemorate the anniversary of the death of General
Robert E. Lee, who died at his home on the campus on Oc-
tober 12, 1871.

Directors of the Robert E. Lee Memorial Foundation met
in Lexington for this occasion and were guests of the pres-
ident and Mrs. Gaines at tea on the afternoon of the 11th,
followed by a dinner in the president’s house, General Lee’s
home during the last years of his life as head of Washington
College, now Washington and Lee University. This group
or women have bought and are restoring Stratford Hall in
Westmoreland County, Virginia, birthplace of General Lee.

 

DR. LOWRY PUBLISHES BOOK

Rev. Charles W. Lowry, Ph.D., Rector of All Saints
Church, Chevy Chase, Maryland, has recently published a
small book entitled The Trinity and Christian Devotion. It
was published last winter by Eyre & Spottiswoode in Eng-
land, and Harper & Brothers in this country, and was the
joint Lenten Book of the Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Presiding Bishop of the American Episcopal Church. Dr.
Lowry was asked to write this book by the late Archbishop
William Temple.

50th ANNIVERSARY

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president emeritus of Washing-
ton and Lee University, and Mrs. Smith celebrated their
golden wedding anniversary in Greensboro, North Carolina,
on August 4. The entire immediate family was present for the
occasion. This was the first reunion with all present since
1940. A year ago Miss Helen Smith was with the WAC in
Italy, Dr. Norris Smith, B. A. ’29, a major with the medical
corps in Europe and Captain Frank Smith, B.S. ’32, was in
the Pacific.

BIG DAN—By Frank Cunningham, ’32

Frank Cunningham has done it again! Big Dan, The Story
of a Colorful Railroader, published by The Desert Press. The
story of the rails is the story of the nation. Big Dan is filled
with all the color of plantation life in Virginia, rollicking ex-
periences with the mountaineers of Kentucky and West Vir-
ginia, the Indians of the southwest, and the thrilling dynamic
days in Colorado and Utah. Frank Cunningham is also the
author of Sky Master—the story of Donald Douglas, publi-
cation recommended by the Book-of-the-Month Club and
winner of The Manuscript Club Award for the most outstand-
ing book of 1944.

Excerpt from Richmond Times-Dispatch, Magazine Section,
June 2, 1946, “Tom Sugrue Comes Back,” by Parke Rouse,
Jr., °37. Sugrue is the author of a best seller, “Starling of
the White House.”

What makes Sugrue pertinent here is that he passed
through what might be called the major climaxes of his life
in Virginia. The first was in 1927, when he hopped like a sud-
denly freed canary bird, out of a Naugatuck, Connecticut,
bank into the brave new world of Lexington, as a college
freshman.

“It was at Washington and Lee that I met the sublime
miracle of the mind of man,” he says. “When I stepped into
the classroom at Lexington my life began, and I remember
my joy because until then I had only prayed desperately that
such a way of life existed; in industrial New England there
was no proof.

“Washington and Lee seems to impart a special kind of
happiness to those who attend it. It is a happiness I have
not found in graduates of other schools, and I have wondered
at its genesis. Part of it I am sure is in the setting and in
the town of Lexington, which is something out of a dream—
a doll’s house town, so small and so dramatically perfect
that it might have been erected as a movie set.

“T was so happy there and so eager to devour all of the
knowledge of the world that I leaped at my books like a
hungry wolf. Being Irish, I leaped at other things too—the
rich friendship of undergraduate life and the colorful social
events of the university. After half a year I asked Dean
Harry Campbell whether I could take my degree in three
years. I did it, and took my master’s degree in my fourth
year.”

There was a sort of frenzied joy of discovery in his re-
action to college, reminiscent of Thomas Wolfe’s. Sugrue was
active in everything—college newspaper, annual, dramatics,
and at length he revived under the aegis of Dr. Fitzgerald
Flournoy, the dormant literary magazine.

“T shall never forget how pleasant were those afternoons in
Lexington,” he muses. “Probably it is the fact that we were
just playing at the things we wanted to do in life that made
it all so happy for us. Anyhow, the quality of Spring has never
been quite the same for me as it was in Lexington, nor have
women ever seemed so beautiful, and music so sweet.”

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Marriages

1925

Wilson M. Roach was married to Miss Katherine Forsyth
of New Orleans, Louisiana, and Esmont, Virginia, on Septem-
ber 26, 1946, at St. Thomas Church, Washington, D. C.

1936

W. Earl Donaldson was married to Colleen Casey on Sep-
tember 28, 1946, in Arlington, Virginia.

1937
Parke Shepherd Rouse, Jr., was married to Elizabeth Mar-
shall Gayle on October 3, 1946, in Richmond, Virginia.

Theodore McFaddin Plowden was married to Suzanne Mc-
Cullough on August 16, 1946, in New York City.

1938

Charles William Karraker, Jr., was married on September
20, 1946, to Celine Backeland Roll Earle. Home address: 4330
Lennox Drive, Coconut Grove, Florida.

1939

Robert Alan Brower was married to Elizabeth Ann Heim-
rick on September 4, 1946, in Cincinnati, Ohio.

1940
Stephen Leonard was married to Alice Bernards, A. B.
42, Indiana University, on June 26, 1946. Home: 520% West
10th Street, Anderson, Indiana.
Ewing Sloan Humphreys, Jr., was married to Mary Louise
Bealer, on November 14, 1946, in Atlanta, Georgia.

1941

John T. Lykes, Jr., was married to Marjorie Carrere on
November 14, 1946, in New Orleans, Louisiana.

1942

Harry Burgess Wood, Jr., was married to Gwendolyn Ber-
nice Billings on September 24, 1946, in Bowling Green, Ken-
tucky.

1943

Jay Armand Silverstein was married to Pearl Ann Levy
on October 14, 1946, in Pensacola, Florida.

George Robert Eshelman was married to Frances Jane
Clark on September 28, 1946, in Decatur, Illinois.

Eastham Waller Dudley was married to Miss Letty Waugh
on September 24, 1946, in Pulaski, Virginia. He is now a stu-
dent in the Law School at Washington and Lee.

Allie Hartsfield Lane was married to Barbara Moseley on
August 16, 1946, in Lakeland, Florida.

William Jenkins Wilcox, Jr., was married to Eugenia
Holder on August 17, 1946, in Newport, Tennessee.

1944

Mellor William Stevenson was married to Elizabeth
Clough Woodruff on October 12, 1946, in Cleveland Heights,
Ohio.

Howard Bell Peabody, Jr., was married to Elizabeth Bar-
ton Williams on August 11, 1946, in Magnolia, Mississippi.

1945

Tom Moore, Jr., was married to Sarah Ann Temple on
October 26, 1946, in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

1946

Herbert N. Hamric, Jr., was married to Mae Jean Doubet
on August 17, 1946, in Peoria, Illinois.

Births

1930
Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. Stanley Forrest Hampton

are the parents of Hila Knight Hampton, born January 2,
1946. Home: 6377 Pershing Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri.

1936

Mr. and Mrs. Henry M. Drake are the parents of a son,
Henry M., Jr., born November 4, 1946.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Whaley, Jr., are the parents» of
a son, William E. III, born September 5, 1946.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry E. McLaughlin are the parents of a
son, Henry E., Jr., born October 5, 1946.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard T. Shepherd are the parents of a son,
Stephen Kemp Shepherd, born July 6, 1946.

1941

Captain and Mrs. Clifford H. Muller, Jr., are the parents of
a son, Clifford H. Muller, III, born August 23, 1946.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. Warren Stuart are the parents of a son, Wil-
liam Moore Stuart, III, born July 7, 1946.

In Memoriam

1891

Hon. Miles Poindexter died at his home in Greenlee, Vir-
ginia, on September 21, 1946. After graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee with the LL.B. degree in 1891, he went to
Walla Walla, Washington, where he served successively as
Prosecuting Attorney; Judge of the Superior Court of Wash-
ington; member of Congress and United States Senator from
Washington. In 1923 he was named Ambassador to Peru,
which office he held until 1928. Thereafter he spent much of
his time in Washington, D. C., practicing law and represent-
ing various interests in the Capitol. He retired to his old home
in Greenlee, Virginia.

1900

Robert Anderson Watson died, Wednesday, November
20, at his home in Charlottesville, Virginia.

1903

Dr. John W. Warner died October 28, 1946, in Washing-
ton, D. C. His son, John W. Jr., is a student at Washington
and Lee.

1910

John R. Coates died June 22, 1946.

1911

Mr. Henry Kline Dickinson died at his home in Opelika,
Alabama, May 3, 1946.

[ 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1917
John DeJarnette Faison died on October 29, 1946. His
home was in Louisville, Kentucky.

Marion de Witt Williamson of Cockeysville, Maryland,
died suddenly on August 7, 1946.

1920

Sidney Sims McKinney died November 4, 1946, in Cadiz,
Kentucky.
1921

Mr. Charles Louis Booth died at his home in Danville,
Virginia, October 12, 1946.
1926

Dr. Hugh Bryson Glass died suddenly on August 17, 1946,
following a heart attack in his laboratory in Birmingham, Ala-
bama. Dr. Glass was a widely known chemist.

1927
Spencer Merrick, Jr., died suddenly at his home in Balti-
more, June 19, 1946. The cause of death was a cerebral hem-
orrhage.
Edmund Pound Shoup died during the past summer. His
home was in Augusta, Arkansas.

1928
Peter A. Leonardis died December 4, 1945. His home was
in Bloomfield, New Jersey.
1929

Joseph Harold Edmondson died from a heart attack on
September 10, 1946. His home was in Maryville, Tennessee.

 

ALUMNUS DARREL PRICE
RUNNING A NEWSPAPER IN TRIESTE

Darrel M. Price ’32, is running a newspaper in Trieste,
one of the world’s hot spots in the post war period. Receiving
his education at Washington and Lee and at Wake Forest, he
was active in campus journalism at both schools. He was
caught in the draft in June 1942, received his commission in
March 1943, and went to Casablanca the next month as cadre
officer; joined Psychological Warfare Branch in September,
became its news chief for the Bari, Italy, Balkan operation
in January 1944, went to Turin as news chief for Italy’s Pied-
mont in April 1945, and arrived in Trieste in July as deputy
news chief. He was married April 29, 1946, to Signorina Anne
Maldari of Bari. His work was recently reviewed by John
McKnight for one of the American Press Associations, as
follows:

“When Reporter Darrel M. Price was chasing fire trucks
and ambulances in Anderson, South Carolina, six years ago,
he realized vaguely that Italian was a language spoken by
some people on the other side of the Atlantic. The William-
son, North Carolina, newshawk never had heard of the Slo-
vene tongue.

“In Trieste, hot-tempered post-war trouble center, Lieu-
tenant Price is the American officer in charge of the Allied-
sponsored Giornale Alleato, an Italian language daily whose
non-partisan news policy has built its paid circulation to
65,000 in one year and of Glas Zavenznikov, its Slovene
counterpart, which prints 10,000 to 12,000 copies.

“So profitable is Giornale Alleato, Price says that although
newsprint limitations force it to turn down more than half the
advertising offered, it pays the freight for the Slovene Jour-

nal, which accepts no advertising, and still has something left
over.

“It is going so well that Allied Information Service (suc-
cessor to the Psychological Warfare Branch has cut it loose
from official subsidy and set it up as an independent operation.

“Owners of the printing shop where Giornale Alleato, the
Allies’ Slovene paper and Trieste’s four other dailies all are
printed, have been so impressed with the commercial success
of the straight news policy that they are planning another
daily modeled after Giornale Alleato.

“*Tn an area where propaganda comes from all sides,’ the
stocky, blond Price says, ‘it’s a tough job to put out an un-
biased newspaper. We are jumped constantly from both sides,
but the paper still sells.’ ”’

RECENT FACULTY CHANGES

Since the report published in the July issue of The Alumni
Magazine the following professors have resumed their teach-
ing duties at Washington and Lee after leave of absence dur-
ing the war.

O. W. Riegel, Professor and head of the Department of
Journalism, who was with the Office of War Information. In
January 1945 he went to Europe as general representative
from OWL for Italy and the Balkans. For the past year he
was cultural attache and public affairs officer at the American
Legation in Budapest, Hungary.

Dr. M. H. Stow, Professor and head of the Department
of Geology, who was with the War Production Board, and
later engaged in special research at Princeton.

R. W. Royston, ’23, Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
Lieutenant Commander, U.S. N. R.

Dr. W. M. Hinton, ’29, Major, U. S. Army Reserve, re-
turning as Associate Professor of Education and Psychology.

Twenty-three new faculty members added to the staff
since the end of the spring semester have taken over their
duties at the University. The new members are: John F.
Baxter, associate professor of chemistry; Lea Booth ’40, as-
sistant professor of journalism; George M. Brooke °42, in-
structor in history, Lewis Williams ’37, instructor in chem-
istry; Ashley Brown, instructor in English; A. L. Duckett,
instructor in history; Robert B. Epsy ’40, instructor in
French; Brewster Sherwood Ford, instructor in English; E.
C. Griffith, associate professor of economics; John E. Husted,
instructor in geology; William A. Jenks ’°39, instructor in
history; Norman F. Lord, assistant professor of health and
physical education.

Ernest Carlyle Lynch ’32, assistant professor of engineer-
ing; Paul Meadows, assistant professor of mathematics; James
L.. Price, Jr., ’36, assistant professor of philosophy; Allen E.
Ragan, assistant professor of political science; Beverly Read,
instructor in English; Frank V. Rigler, assistant professor of
mathematics; J. Hayden Siler, instructor in romance lan-
guages; Buford Stuart Stephenson, °42, instructor in Ger-
man; Kenneth P. Stevens, professor of biology; James H.
Stewart, assistant professor of economics; W. Dwight Todd,
assistant professor of English; and Charles W. Turner, in-
structor in history.

MAPEL ACTS AS STRIKE MEDIATOR

One of the members of Mayor William O’Dwyer’s com-
mittee to help mediate the strike of truck drivers in New York
is William Mapel, former professor of Journalism at Wash-
ington and Lee. Mr. Mapel is vice-chairman of the Publishers
Association of New York City.

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The First Post-War Football Season

By Charley McDowell, Jr.

The close of the most hectic and unpredictable season
in the history of American football finds the 1946 Washington
and Lee Generals with a record showing six defeats and
only two victories.

To the followers of what sports-writers like to call Wash-
ington and Lee’s “football fortunes” this record is disappoint-
ing indeed. But to the observer who looks beyond the record—
and beyond the traditional flurry of excuses and alibis—the
football team was far from a failure this fall. For it is hon-
estly believed here that this team was the best that has been
fielded by Washington and Lee in a decade. There is no
denying that it was a fine football team—it scored more points
than any Blue and White aggregation since 1929, and em-
ploying a sensational, gamble-filled T-formation attack, it
rolled up one of the highest offensive yardage totals in the
nation.

Coach Art Lewis began the season at a school that had
not played football in four years with a squad made up of
freshmen and including only four lettermen. He sent this
team into competition with schools that had continued foot-
ball during the war and which were flooded with experienced
talent. Yet this inexperienced squad crushed the only two
teams which were also reviving football after a lay-off, and
it was never routed although playing some of the country’s
finest teams. Considering the circumstances, there is no rea-
son to believe that the green squad which showed flashes of
brilliance this year will not develop into a consistent unit in
1947. There is certainly on the Washington and Lee campus
today the best football material that has been here in a great
many years. And the distinctive, wide-open brand of foot-
ball taught by Art Lewis has already received enthusiastic
comment from all who saw the Generals in action. Thus, if
we look on this season as a necessary beginning in the build-
ing of a good football team, it cannot be termed a failure.
This season served its purpose—it showed the tremendous
potentialities of the players and the system.

To try to be analytical about the season is as foolish now
as it always has been, but a summary is hardly complete
without an amateur attempt at it. The two victories, obvious-
ly enough, were against teams that Washington and Lee
completely outclassed. The losses could be attributed, also
fairly obviously, to (1) inexperience, (2) high calibre of com-
petition, and (3) the traditional bad breaks. Inexperience
seems to apply to the losses to Richmond and West Virginia.
A cool, experienced team could never have collapsed as com-
pletely as the Generals did against Richmond. If they did
anything right, we weren't looking. At West Virginia, under
the most atrocious playing conditions we have ever seen or
heard of, the Generals tricky T-formation attack bogged down
completely in a sea of mud. A more experienced team might
have operated from punt formation, thus eliminating so much
ball-handling, or might even have improvised a single-wing of-
fense. Category number two can be applied quite safely to
the losses to William and Mary and Miami. Against these
power-houses the Generals were clearly outclassed. However,
it is from the showings against these two teams that we
can draw the most encouragement. Against the mighty In-
dians, who snowed every other team in the state under a
huge score, the Generals staged one of the greatest offensive
shows we have ever seen to score three times and almost

   

at Ns ae

s

Harner, Bell, Boyda, and Harrington

 

steal the ball game. Before 25,000 at Miami, the Blue and
White team scored three times in a game which a Miami
writer called “one of the greatest offensive battles ever
staged in the Orange Bowl Stadium.” Bad breaks will have
to come in for a large share of the blame in the losses to
V.P.1. and Maryland. Trailing the Generals 7-6 with only
a few minutes to play, the Gobblers completed a pass to a
man lying flat on his back. This set up a touchdown which
was plunged over with less than a half-a-minute to play. At
Maryland W. and L. trailed 12-7 when a drive carried them
deep into Maryland’s territory. Then the fabled Tommy Mott
stole a pass from the arms of a W. and L. end on the 2-yard
line and ran 98 yards for a touchdown. Their spirit broken,
the Generals were never again in the game.

A very brief summary of each game on the schedule fol-
lows:

Hampden-Sydney

In the opening game which foretold the “one extreme to
the other” erraticism which was to mark the Generals’ play
for the rest of the season, Washington and Lee did every-
thing wrong in a dismal first half and then bounced back
after the intermission to bury the Tigers under the score of
41-6. Freshman Charlie Harrington scored the first time he
ran from scrimmage on a quick-opener for 11 yards. “The
Plainsman” from Auburn, Nebraska, scored another touch-
down on a winding broken-field dash after taking a flat pass
from Dick Working. The score snowballed as Mike Boyda
completed long passes to Jim Fahey and Bill Chipley for
six pointers. After Hampden-Sydney had wedged in a touch-
down on an end-zone pass completion, Harry Harner circled
end for five yards and six points. Brian Bell ended the
slaughter by trotting 23 yards with one of Hampden-Syd-
ney’s flat passes. Bob Riley kicked five extra points with one
going astray.

West Virginia
On October 12, the Generals and a torrential rain arrived

in Charleston to renew the historic rivalry with West Virginia.
Under unbelievable playing conditions the Mountaineers’

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

more amphibious offense produced a touchdown and their
twenty-fifth victory in the thirty-game series. W. and L,.’s
tricky attack was completely bogged down in the mud, and
plagued by nine fumbles, the Generals never threatened
seriously.

William and Mary

Before 9,000 spectators in the Roanoke Stadium Washing-
ton and Lee gave the mighty William and Mary Indians
their toughest battle (and ran up the largest score against
them) on their way to the state championship. Although
humbling every major team in the state by huge margins,
the Indians were content with a 34-18 victory over the Gen-
erals. This game was called by many observers the greatest
football game ever played in Roanoke. W. and L. completed
21 passes in 27 attempts for a gain of 237 yards in a spectac-
ular aerial display acclaimed by all who witnessed it. Wil-
liam and Mary scored in the first four minutes of play but
Mike Boyda passed and ran the Generals to the 1 yard line
from which Brian Bell dived over for a W. and L. touchdown.
As the spectators got back into their seats William and Mary
carried the next kickoff 82 yards for a touchdown. Then be-
fore the half, the near-unstoppable Indians moved the score
up to 27-6. At the beginning of the second half Dick Work-
ing began a passing barrage that didn’t end until he hit Bill
Chipley in the end zone. Then, five minutes later, as the
crowd went wild in the best story-book fashion, Lighthorse
Harry Lee Harner scored the third W. and L. touchdown
with the most sensational broken-field dash we have ever
seen on any football field. The score stood 27-18, and soon
the Generals were on the move again, completing passes al-
most at will. Then came a weird trick of fate that broke the
heart of a fighting team—Working was hit in the arm as he
faded to pass and the ball went less than a yard into the
arms of a William and Mary lineman. He galloped, un-
touched, for the touchdown that clinched a win for the In-
dians.

Richmond

Playing Richmond's surprisingly powerful Spiders be-
fore a Homecoming crowd of 8,000, Washington and Lee
gave the worst possible exhibition as they lost 20-0. Still
bruised and beaten from the previous week’s battle with
William and Mary, and possibly a bit overconfident, the
Generals fumbled their way to a 14-0 deficit before half-time.
After the half the fumbles merely came oftener, and while

 

    

¥ ‘ss oe .
ra > * * ¥
qe

Norman, Sauers, McCausland

Richmond scored again, the home team never could muster
an offensive threat.
Davidson

In spite of a drizzling rain, W. and L. completed 10 passes
and picked up 220 yards rushing to spoil Davidson’s Home-
coming 25-6. After the game Wildcats had beat off a scoring
drive in the first quarter, the Generals’ deceptive T-formation
attack clicked for two quick touchdowns in the second period.
The battery of Working and Chipley connected for the first
six points and a few minutes later Brian Bell took another
pass in the end zone. After the half, sensational broken-field
running by Charlie Harrington carried the ball deep into
Davidson’s territory and Bell plunged over from the four.
Then in the fourth period Working lateraled to Bell who
began what appeared to be a wide run around left end. But
leaping high into the air, the south-paw from Washington,
D.C., passed to Harrington who was all alone behind the
Davidson safety man. Davidson scored on a desperate pass
in the waning minutes to make the final score 25-6.

¥. Pk

In the most heart-breaking loss of the season W. and L.
led V. P. lL. 7-6 with less than a minute to play only to lose
13-7. Before 12,000 fans in the Lynchburg Stadium the two
old rivals fought up and down the field in a scoreless first
half. In the third quarter an interception deep in W. and L.
territory led to a Tech touchdown. The try for the extra
was wide. Early in the fourth period Harrington took in a
\V. PP... punt at midfield and zig-zagged his way to the Tech
29. On the next play Working passed to Harrington who was
finally pulled down from behind on the 10. Then Bill Chip-
ley, probably the greatest end ever to play at Washington
and Lee, outran the V.P.I1. defenders and pulled down a
pass from Working for a touchdown. Bob Riley’s try for
point couldn't have been better and the Generals led 7-6. The
W. and L. line held against the desperate Gobblers and with
time running out V.P.I. attempted a long pass. The re-
ceiver seemed to trip and fall and the ball was caught as he
lay on the ground. This brought the ball to the W. and L,.
14-yard line and V. P. I. scored on line plays with only sec-
onds remaining.

Maryland

Playing in Baltimore Stadium the Generals lost to Mary-
land 24-7 although at one point they appeared on the road
to victory. After Maryland had rolled up 12 points in the
first half, the General’s passing attack pushed to a quick
touchdown in the third period. Brian Bell, W. and L.’s lead-
ing scorer for the year, took Boyda’s pass on the Maryland
one and fell across the goal line. Riley converted and Mary-
land led 12-7. The next time W. and L,. laid hands on the
ball a varied running and passing attack carried to the Mary-
land 10 yard line. Working passed to Fahey who got both
hands on the ball on the two, but Tommy Mont of Mary-
land stole the ball out of the big end’s arms and galloped 98
yards for the touchdown that changed the entire complexion
of the game. Maryland scored once more against the dis-
heartened but still-fighting Generals and the final score
stood at 24-7.

Miami

Before 25,000 cheering spectators in the Orange Bowl
Stadium the Generals staged a wild offensive battle with the
powerful Miami Hurricanes, and although trounced 40-20,
gave their best showing of the year with the possible excep-
tion of the William and Mary game. (William and Mary,
incidentally, was not able to score a touchdown in losing to
Miami earlier in the season.) The three W. and L. touch-

[ 13 ]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.

Frankie Masters Tohn Bell Jim Pratt
Andy McCutcheon Toney Lee Jack McCausland
Bill Chipley Kyle Holley Herb Miller
Dike Norman Rob Riley Dick Yankee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Harry Harner Mike Boyda Bob Carr
Larry Englert Bill Lilly Brian Bell, Jr.
Jim Fahey Mark Saurs Bill Cadle
Jim Lukens Gil Wilson Dick Working

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

downs were all scored on sensational plays straight out of
Art Lewis’ pro book. Working tossed a looping basketball
pass to end Jim Lukens for one six-pointer and shovelled
one in the flat to substitute halfback Bill Woods for another.
On the latter, Woods caught the pass behind the line of
scrimmage, and with excellent blocking threaded his way
76 yards to score. The other W. and L. touchdown came on
one of the trickiest plays pulled anywhere this season.
Quarterback Working, who had done any passing that was
done while he was in the game, handed the ball off to Har-
rington, who ran wide to the right. Meanwhile, unnoticed,
Working circled left end and was in the clear when Harring-
ton passed to him for the touchdown. This game was the
last for Guard Paul Cavaliere, Back Harry Harner, and End
Bill Chipley. The rest of the squad will be on hand next
season. Chipley was named to the All-State and All-Southern
first teams and rival coaches were unanimous in calling him
one of the finest college ends seen in action this season.

Local Alumni Meetings

Since the last issue of the Alumni Magazine was pub-
lished many local alumni chapters have held meetings. Lack
of space in this issue does not permit full coverage. Meetings
were held in the following cities:

CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

This was perhaps the largest gathering of local and visit-
ing alumni ever held in the Capitol City of West Virginia.
On the eve of the West Virginia-Washington and Lee game
on October 12, at the Edgewood Country Club, approximately
150 alumni enjoyed a smoker and buffet supper. Goodridge
Sale, ’24, president of the local chapter, presided. Short talks
were made by Governor Meadows, ’26, of West Virginia,
Lieutenant Governor Pat Collins, ’20, of Virginia, United
States Senator Chap Revercomb, '18, of West Virginia and
State Supreme Court Justice, Bill Lovins, 14, of West Vir-
ginia. Other celebrities too numerous to mention were also
in attendance. The University was represented by Coach Art
Lewis, Director of Athletics Dick Smith and Alumni Sec-
retary Cy Young.

ROANOKE, VIRGINIA

Seventy-five local alumni met at the Hotel Roanoke for
a reorganization meeting and dinner on October 18. Ed Ould,
'29, retiring president, presided. The following officers were
elected for the coming year: President, Bill Bagby, ’38, Vice-
President, Norred Trinkle, ’26, Secretary, Barton Morris,
'43, Alumni Council representative, Tom Fox, ’31.

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

At the Mecklinburg Hotel, on November 1, 50 alnmni and
their wives gathered for a delightful dinner and meeting of
the Charlotte chapter, on the eve of the Davidson-Washing-
ton and Lee football game. Jack Crist, 13, president, pre-
sided. New officers for the coming year were elected as fol-
lows: Hugh Ashcraft, ’41, President, Grier Wallace, ’35,
Vice-President, and John L. Crist, Jr., °45, Secretary.

CINCINNATI, OHIO

Forty-five alumni and their wives were the guests of
Walter McDonald, ’10, member of the University Board of
Trustees, on December 12, at his beautiful home in Indian
Hills, for a sumptuous dinner in honor of President Gaines.

Dr. Gaines presented to those present a picture of the Uni-
versity as it is today and projected his hearers into the future
concerning the plans for the Bicentennial celebration.

CLEVELAND, OHIO

A most enjoyable meeting of alumni was held at the Uni-
versity Club on November 13. Forty-four alumni and their
Wives were present to hear Dr. Gaines bring them up-to-date
on the affairs of the University and outline future plans for
the Bicentennial. Ben F. Fiery, ’13, presided and the follow-
ing officers were elected for the coming year; Thomas M.
Harman, ’25, President, Robert B. Campbell, ’24, Vice-Pres-
ident, Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, Secretary, and Sam P.
McChesney, Jr., °38, Treasurer.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

The annual smoker of the Washington chapter was held
at the Mayflower Hotel on Friday evening, November 15.
In the absence of President Paul Brown, ’41, Charlie Suter,
33, presided at a short business session at which the follow-
ing officers were elected for the coming year; President, Ran-
dolph Rouse, ’39, Vice-President, Graham Morison, ’30, Sec-
retary, Fred Pearse, 731.

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

On the eve of the Maryland-Washington and Lee game,
November 15, a large number of Washington and Lee alumni
gathered at the Engineers Club for a smoker and to hear
Coach Art Lewis and Director of Athletics Cap’n Dick
Smith. Lewis Tignor, ’32, president of the local chapter, was
in charge of arrangements.

NEW YORK

The annual meeting of the local chapter was held at the
Columbia Club on November 15. Seventy-five alumni heard
Dr. Walter Flick, of the Psychology Department of the Uni-
versity, discuss the affairs of the University, past, present
and future.

JOURNALISM LECTURE SERIES

David Tennant Bryan, publisher of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch and News Leader, spoke to Washington and Lee
Journalism students on November 18 to inaugurate a series
of lectures and discussion groups established by the Roanoke
Times Fund of the Lee Memorial Journalism Foundation.

The purpose of the series is to bring to Washington and
Lee distinguished practitioners and leaders in editorial, adver-
tising, radio, and other communications fields for the benefit
of students in professional journalism courses.

The second of the series was held December 16 when
Thurman L. Barnard, vice-president and director of Comp-
ton Advertising, Inc., of New York addressed the journalism
group on current advertising problems.

Subsequent lectures tentatively scheduled will include
Ralph McGill, editor of the Atlanta Constitution, and Mark
Woods, president of the American Broadcasting Company.

The Times Fund was created by J. B. Fishburn and Junius
P. Fishburn of Roanoke.

DR. CROBAUGH RESIGNS

Dr. Mervyn Crobaugh, associate professor of Economics
at Washington and Lee, who has been on leave of absence
since 1944, has resigned and is now associated with the OPA
office in Cleveland, Ohio, in the price division.

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1889

1903

 

C. H. Gilkeson, one of
Washington and Lee’s most
faithful alumni, lives in Fair-
field, Virginia.

1891

Frank a Nelson, 918 Ham-
ilton Bank Building, Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee, was a vis-
itor to Lexington during the
past summer.

1894

 

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters
to your Class Agent this year.

J. C. McPheeters is con-

nected with the Duke Power

Company, Charlotte, North
Carolina. Home: 125 West
Vance’ Street, Charlotte,
North Carolina.

Joseph D. Collins, M. D..,
Medical Arts’ Building,

Portsmouth, Virginia, envies
his class agent who lives in
the mountains of West Vir-
ginia, since Portsmouth is

 

 

Charles H. Freeman is
now retired and living in Bon Air, Virginia. He and his wife
dco a lot of motoring. They have a nice home in Bon Air
which is a delightful little community four miles southwest
of Richmond.

1898

Colonel Henry W. Anderson, of Richmond, Virginia, one
of the co-receivers of the Seaboard Airline Railroad Company,
will serve as board chairman of that organization which re-
turned to operation under corporate management as of August
1, thus terminating operation under the receivership which
had it inception during the depression of the 1930s. Joseph T.
Lykes, ’09, is one of the new directors of the company.

1899

S. C. Lind is Dean of the Institute of Technology, Univer-
sity of Minnesota. His son returned from overseas in Novem-
ber and has resumed his position with Dow Chemical Com-
pany, Freeport, Texas.

Herbert B. Chermside is Clerk of the Circuit Court, Char-
lotte Court House, Virginia. He has been Chairman of Selec-
tive Service and found it a hard and disagreeable task.

Ewing D. Sloan is Administrator of Federal Works Agen-
cy, Jackson, Mississippi. He is strong for a class reunion in
1949.

William E. Davis is still with the Midland
Coal Corporation, Lexington, Kentucky, as
president and general manager. He travels a
great deal “working at beck and call of John
Lewis,” trying to mine coal.

James Mullen is a member of the law firm
of Williams, Mullen and Hazelgrove, 1001 East
Main Street, Richmond 19, Virginia. His son
is the head of a research laboratory of his own
and during the war was one of the govern-
ment’s research scientists, first in rubber and
then in secret weapons, some of which have
not even yet been disclosed to the public.

1902

Colonel Charles S. Caffery, now retired
from the United States Army, is living at 1019
Jungle Avenue, St. Petersburg, Florida.

 

just three feet above sea
level and its inhabitants are constantly hoping that the tide
will not get high enough to swamp them. However, it is a
most interesting place to live. While a great many of the
hordes of strangers who flocked there for war work have
now departed, there are still many who have decided to stay
on if possible and some are making splendid citizens.

Francis T. Reeves, Attorney-at-Law, Waterbury, Connec-
ticut, says the only thing of great moment which has happened
to him in the past year is that he has another granddaughter.

Francis Treveylian Miller is Director of Research, Histor-
ical Foundations of World War II. He writes: “There in
historic Lexington I found the heart and soul of America. It
transformed me not into a diplomat but into an historian. Ten
years later, as editor-in-chief of The Journal of American His-
tory I planned and produced the semi-centennial (10 vols.)
Photographic History of the Civil War, preserving for pos-
terity the famous Bandy negatives and giving full credit to
Washington and Lee University. This work has since become
the established authority throughout the world.” Dr. Miller
is the author of many outstanding historical works.

J. M. McClung i is still in the business of farming and gen-
eral insurance in Raphine, Virginia. He says he is a confirmed
bachelor and “the less you hear about them the more interest-
ing is the narrative.”

1904

LeRoy Thompson is minister cf the First Presbyterian
Church, Roswell, New Mexico. His only child
is a daughter who is married and has a son
two years old. They also live in Roswell.

Judge Julian F. Bouchelle is a member of
the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, Charleston,
West Virginia.

Matthew T. McClure is head of the De-
partment of Philosophy and Dean of the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences, University
of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois.

1906

Frank K. Rader has been Professor of
Business Administration at Southern Metho-
dist University, Dallas, Texas, since 1926. He
is now President of The Conservative Life In-
surance Company at Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia, where he spends most of his time. How-
ever, he still maintains his home in Dallas.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

David W. Pipes, Jr., did not attend the reunion of the class
at Finals. He had planned to make the trip with Albert (Kid)
Steves. David’s home is Terrebonne Parish, Houma, Louisi-
ana.

Ed Lea Davis, is a member of the firm of Rose-Davis
Realty Company, Flat Iron Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
He says in his letter to his class agent; “My hat is always
off, in salute, to Washington and Lee University and to those
of you who keep us boys hitting the trail.”

1907

Henry W. Miller is head of the Department of Mechanism
and Engineering Drawing at the University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan. The tremendous number of students at-
tending the University of Michigan now has made it neces-
sary to add so many buildings for housing and classroom
facilities that he thinks an alumnus would have a hard time
finding his way around. They expect to have as many as
twenty thousand students next year.

David H. Hill, whose home is in Westfield, New Jersey,
is now in Poughkeepsie, New York, where his company is lay-
ing a 3 foot C. I. intake pipe for the Poughkeepsie Water Sup-
ply. “It is laid on the bottom of the Hudson River and extends
about 1000 feet from shore to shore at a depth of 65 feet be-
low the surface (outer end). The tidal currents here are pretty
strong and divers can only work about 1% hours twice a day
when the flow changes from flood to ebb or visa versa, so it
is quite a long job.” He has been working with the Merritt,
Chapman & Scott Corporation of New York City since 1918.
Home: 310 Edgewood Avenue, Westfield, New Jersey.

1908

Alan Porter Lee was in Southern Brazil much of the time
during the 1946 Alumni Fund, but notwithstanding this, he
and his most efficient secretary have done a splendid job for
the class of 1908-A. Address: 136 Liberty Street, New York 6,
New York.

Elmer W. Somers, Attorney-at-Law, Accomac, Virginia,
writes that he enjoys reading the class notes in The Alumni
Magazine.

John W. Lykes is vice-president of Lykes Brothers Incor-
porated, ranchers, packers of beef and pork products, Tampa,
Florida.

Dr. Louis K. Koontz, Professor of American History, Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles, was on sabbatic leave last
year and paid a short visit to the campus. Dr. Koontz is also
Managing Editor of The Pacific Review, publication of the
Pacific Coast Branch of the American Historical Society. He
says visiting Lexington is like what visiting Mecca is to a
Mohommedan.

Colonel Joseph M. Moore, is superintendent of Green-
brier Military School, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He was in
Lexington attending a meeting of the Virginia Preparatory
Schools Association, of which he is the only out-of-state mem-
ber, and met many old friends here.

Donald P. Boyer last summer, in order to get a few se-
mester hours which would be necessary to renew his teaching
certificate, which was due to expire in 1949, betook himself to
the University of Virginia to take courses in the graduate
school of education. Encouraged by finding that at 55 he could
learn as well as ever, he secured a leave for professional im-

provement from his job as a teacher in the Richmond Public
Schools, and by June secured his M. A. degree. He says at
Washington and Lee he was the youngest man in the grad-
uating class, and at Virginia on June 11, 1946, the oldest. His
son, who was a prisoner of war in Germany, is now back at
home safe and sound, and staying in the army.

Wheatley M. Johnson is farming at “Clover Hill Farm,”
Manassas, Virginia, trying to produce more crops with less
than half the labor formerly available. His oldest son Wheat-
ley M., B. A. ’42, has been discharged from the Army Air
Force as a Captain and is now managing editor of the Manas-
sas local weekly paper. His second son has now been released
from the Navy and the youngest, now 18 years of age, is help-
ing his father on the farm.

Dozier A. DeVane, United States District Judge, Orlando,
Florida, was inducted as an honorary member of Phi Beta
Kappa in August, 1946. He and his wife spent their vacation
at the Natural Bridge, and were frequent visitors to Lex-
ington.

1909

Sam M. Engelhardt, Class Agent for 1909, is Purchasing
Agent for the City of Montgomery, Alabama. He and his
wife were recent visitors to the campus.

Crowell T. Dawkins is in the General Contracting business
in Tampa, Florida. At a recent meeting of the Washington
and Lee Florida West Coast alumni, at which Dr. L. J. Desha
represented the University, Mr. Dawkins was elected presi-
dent of the organization. He hopes to send his son to Wash-
ington and Lee within the next few years.

Devall Gwathmey will soon complete 25 years as rector of
St. John’s Episcopal Church in Wytheville, Virginia.

Dr. A. A. Houser, Richmond, Virginia, says: “I have no
complaints to make of the past forty years, as I have been
able to maintain a fair degree of economic competence. I have
reared almost a dozen children, contributed a third of a dozen
to the war effort. I realize that I received a great deal of bene-
fit in my stay at the University and it is always a pleasure to
pay at occasions recognition to the service that the Univer-
sity rendered.”

S. N. Hoshour is Collector for the City of Staunton, Vir-
ginia. He was prevented by illness from attending Finals this
year.

1910

Walter McDonald was in Lexington at Finals and attend-
ing a meeting of the University Board of Trustees, of which
he is a member. He has recently returned to his home in Cin-
cinnati after a prolonged vacation in Arizona, where he met
his friend and classmate John Izard.

O. W. Richardson is Vice-President of the Duquesne
Lumber Company. He says he is a “lucky boy of 59,” for he
was leaving the day his letter was written to spend Easter
with his 82 year old Dad and 80 year old Mother in Phila-
delphia. His offices are in the Columbia Building, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Harry J. Lemley is District Judge of the Eastern and
Western Districts of Arkansas. He lives in Hope, Arkansas,
but his main office is in the Federal Building at Texarkana.
He also has an office in Little Rock. He is commonly called
the “roving” federal judge in Arkansas. He recently was the
recipient of an honorary degree at the University of Arkansas.

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Charles K. Hauke was in Nome, Alaska, last year as Gen-
eral Superintendent of the work at that garrison for the U.S.
Engineers. After V. E. day he was returned to Washington,
D. C., his terminal leave expiring September 10, 1945. He was
transferred to the F. P.H. A. and is now working on the
demolition and erection of veterans’ housing. Temporary ad-
dress: Box 61, Bruning, Nebraska.

Larry W. Wilson is President and General Manager
Greensboro Motor Car Company. He was recently elected a
member of the Alumni Board of Trustees and attended the
meeting of the Board at Homecoming.

Russell L. Frink has been General Counsel for the Florida
East Coast Railway since 1939. He was recently elected pres-
ident of the Sons of the American Revolution. His son, Rus-
sell, Jr., Captain in the Field Artillery, has been discharged
after four and a half years in the service. Ad-
dress: 414 Graham Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

Lee Cazort moved to Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, seventeen years ago. He has a family of
four children. In 1915 he was elected to the
House of Representatives; in 1917 elected
Speaker of the House; 1919 elected to State
Senate; in 1921 elected president of the Sen-
ate. When the office of Lieutenant Governor
was created he was elected as Arkansas’s sec-
ond Lieutenant Governor in 1929, and reelected
to this same office in 1933 and 1935. He has
been presiding officer of five General Assem-
blies, a very unusual record. For the past nine
vears he has held the office of Referee in
Bankruptcy for the largest judicial district
in the State and engaged in private practice
of law in addition to his work.

Richard D. Morales has been appointed honorary attorney
and Counsellor at law for the Cuban government and the
Cuban consulate in Miami, Florida. The appointment came
from Raphael P. Gonzalez-Munoz, sub-secretary of state. On
graduation from the Law School he opened a law office in
Tampa and practiced there until he came to Miami in 1940.
Address: Ingraham Building, Miami, Florida.

1911

Major General Clements McMullen was an officer pilot in
World War I, and becoming enamoured with flying, he con-
tinued in the army as a flying officer. After a colorful career
in World War II, he was assigned in January 1946, as Chief
of Staff of General Ennis C. Whitehead’s newly formed
Pacific Air Command, U.S.A. Home address: 511 Alta
Avenue, San Antonio 2, Texas.

W. C. Armentrout is District Manager for the Equitable
Life Assurance Society, Elkins, West Virginia.

Fred P. Guthrie was a visitor to the campus for Finals and
attended the Memorial service for Washington and Lee men
lost in the war. His son, Walter Russell, who graduated in
1940 was among them. Mr. Guthrie is Assistant Vice-Presi-
dent of R. C. A. Communications, Inc., 1625 K Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

Edward E. Brown still continues in the life insurance busi-
ness as General Agent for the Penn Mutual Life Insurance
Company of Philadelphia and has just completed an eighteen
months term as president of the Chattanooga Chamber of

 

Commerce. Address: Chattanooga Bank Building, Chatta-
nooga 2, Tennessee.

Jim Barker is Agent for the Hartford Accident and Indem-
nity Company, Bristol, Tennessee. He has given up some of
his outside activities but is still a Director in Dominion Na-
tional Bank and a member of the Bristol, Tennessee Planning
Commission and a Presbyterian Deacon.

William A. Reid is Cashier of the First National Bank of
Troutville, Virginia. He and Mrs. Reid were planning to go
to Agnes Scott College for commencement where his two
daughters were in school, the eldest a senior.

Henry Moncure has been with the Ordnance Department
since 1940, going to Radford Ordnance Works when it started
production, as senior inspector of Powder and Explosives.
They have now been changed to an arsenal
and he has been reassigned in charge of stor-
age and surveillance, as he expects “to be in
these hills for a good while, nursing 50,000,000
pounds of smokeless powder and 25,000,000
pounds of T. N. T., with the hope that it will
never have to be used for the purpose it was
intended for.” Address: 418 Tyler Avenue,
Radford, Virginia.

C. W. Tharpe is a member of the firm of
Hardie & Caudle, “the house of Kuppenheimer
good clothes.” Says he has been too busy
selling white shirts and suits to write a class
letter. Address: 810 Broad Street, Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee.

John G. Herndon is head of the Depart-
ment of Government, Haverford College, Hav-
erford, Pennsylvania. His son Dick, 41, is
vice-consul at Montreal and enjoying his life
and work there very much.

1912

Rt. Rev. Lloyd R. Craighill, Bishop of the Episcopal
Church Mission, District of Ankin, Lion Hill, Wuhu, China,
has returned to his work there. Ordained as Bishop in 1940,
he was interned by the Japanese in China and returned to
this country on the Gripsholm. He is now engaged in the
rehabilitation of church, school and hospital in the formerly
war torn areas of his Diocese.

Robert R. Blake moved from Winston-Salem, North Caro-
lina, in July 1945, to take over thirty-three counties in Vir-
ginia for the Jaynes Manufacturing Company of Chicago.
His address is care of Y. M. C. A., Roanoke, Virginia.

Dr. Edward Lyons is now a retired chemist, having left
the ranks of Parke, Davis after 26 years of service. To keep
himself busy he is selling correspondence courses for La-
Salle Extension University. He promises to be coming South
one of these days as he is tired of the Michigan winters.

Byron Ballard is a member of the law firm of Shields,
Ballard, Jennings & Taber, 1400 Olds Tower Building, Lan-
sing 8, Michigan. He would like to have a 35th reunion of
his class at Finals next vear.

1913

Carter Glass, Jr., was released from the service in Sep-
tember 1945, with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He is now
back with the Lynchburg News, Lynchburg, Virginia.

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Adrian Williamson, after spending a year in India and a
year in China, is out of the service and has resumed the prac-
tice of law at his home in Monticello, Arkansas. His son,
Adrian, Jr., is now a student here.

Robert Kern Williams has been with the War Department
in a civilian capacity since 1940. Both of his sons have re-
turned to this country from the service. Address: 1508 Crit-
tenden Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

William T. Hanzsche is Minister of the Prospect Street
Presbyterian Church, Trenton, New Jersey. He preached the
baccalaureate sermon at the Victory Commencement at Wash-
ington and Lee. Two years ago he was initiated into Phi Beta
Kappa here.

Benjamin F. Fiery makes frequent trips to Virginia now as
his daughter, Anne is a student at Sweet Briar. He is a mem-
ber of the Law Firm of Baker, Hostetler, Sidlo and Patter-
son, Union Commerce Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

M. A. Stevenson, after six years in administrative church
work, is now Pastor of the First Methodist Church, Pulaski,
Virginia. His son and daughter, both in the service, are now
back in this country.

John L. Crist, President Southern Dyestuff Corporation,
Charlotte, North Carolina, was in Lexington for the Victory
Reunion at Finals and to attend the graduation of his son

John L,., Jr.

Paul D. Converse, Professor in the Commerce Department,
University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, writes that the biggest
news with him is that his son, Paul, Jr., has returned after
two and a half years in the South Pacific and in Germany. His
daughter, Louise, is finishing her junior vear in the University
of Illinois.

Harvey B. Apperson is a member of the Virginia State
Corporation Commission, and finds the work interesting but
arduous. Both of his sons have returned safely from the war,
Harvey, Jr., an Air Transport Pilot and First Lieutenant in
the Air Corps, has made application for a commission in the
Regular Army; his second son Charlie Logan Apperson, is
now a student at Washington and Lee.

Howard L. Robinson is a member of the law firm of Rob-
inson and Stump, Union National Bank Building, Clarksburg,
West Virginia. He says he still has his nose to the grind-
stone practicing law but takes a little diversion interesting
himself on the farm where he was born and raised, and gets
a great deal of enjoyment out of that luxury.

H. Wise Kelley is a member of the Law firm of Bowen
and Kelly, Potomac Electric Power Company Building, Wash-
ington, D. C. His son, H. Wise, Jr., is now a student in the
Law School at Washington and Lee having already obtained
his A. B. degree.

Lieutenant Colonel William C. Coulbourn, having been a
member of the National Guard of Virginia for many years,
was called into active service on February 3, 1941, and has
been in since that time. For the past three years he has been
stationed at Fort Benning, where he is Post Judge Advocate.
He and his wife live on the post and, “now that the war is
over lead a very happy and contented existence.” He expects
to return to civilian life on January 1, 1947—probably to his
home in Mathews County, Virginia.

Howard P. Macfarlane is a member of the law firm of Mc-
Kay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ferguson, First National Bank
Building, Tampa, Florida. Two of the partners in this firm

who were graduates of Washington and Lee have died recent-
ly, K. I. McKay, LL.B. ’04, in 1945, and William H. Jackson,
LL.B. ’08, in 1946 Mr. Macfarlane’s son, Hugh C. Macfarlane,
received his LL.B. here in June, and is now associated with
the firm.

H. M. Woodward is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia,
with offices in the Western Union Building. Both of his sons
are now out of the service and starting back in civilian life.

1914

Edward M. Craig, Class Agent for ’14-A, has changed his
address to 3515-78th Street, Jackson Heights, New York.

Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr., President of the Wheeling Tile
Co., Wheeling, West Virginia, claims that his life is unevent-
ful, but his three sons, aged 15, 11, and 9, are headed for
Washington and Lee.

Lieutenant Colonel William Moseley Brown, now on ter-
minal leave, expected to be back in civilian life in October. He
has been in the service four years, including 2% years in Eng-
land, France, Belgium, Holland, Germany and Austria. His
older boy returned from Okinawa a short time ago. His
younger son was two years in the Air Corps. Address: P. O.
Box 506, Scarsdale, New York.

J. Goodloe Jackson is district representative for the Corn
Products Sales Company, in Cumberland, Maryland, and
president of the local Washington and Lee Alumni Chapter.

Fred Davis is in the general insurance business, Davis,
Childs & Company, Incorporated, Lynchburg, Virginia. He is
kept on the run with his business, outside activities, and
bringing up two little girls, aged three and six. He has re-
cently been elected President of Post G, Travelers Protective
Associations, is on the Board of Directors of Lynchburg Fe-
male Orphan Asylum, Treasurer Piedmont Area Council of
the Boy Scouts, song leader at the Rotary Club and interested
in the activities of the Natural Bridge Appalachian Trail Club.
He says he has too many irons in the fire.

1915

Joseph W. Hodges is District Attorney, Silver City, New
Mexico.

Charlie Switzer has been with the DuPont Company since
leaving Washington and Lee. He was recently promoted to
Assistant Manager of the Nylon Department, DuPont Com-
pany, Wilmington, Delaware.

Jerry A. Burke was a recent visitor to the campus. He has
had two sons at Washington and Lee, Jerry A., Jr., ’38, and
Richard Floyd, III, ’42. Address: P. O. Box 47, Appomattox,
Virginia.

W. A. Keleher, Attorney, Albuquerque, New Mexico, rep-
resented Washington and Lee at the inauguration of the Pres-
ident of the University of New Mexico on May 10, 1946. He
was present at this celebration in a dual capacity as he re-
ceived the honorary degree of Master of Arts.

Lawrence B. Wales is now Commander, Naval Air Sta-
tion, New Orleans, Louisiana. His son, Lawrence B., Jr., who
graduated with the war class at V.M.I., is now a student
in the Law School at Washington and Lee.

Bob Shaw is Chief Engineer of the Tube Division of Radio
Corporation of America, with headquarters at Harrison, New

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Jersey. He is also responsible for an engineering department
of the same corporation at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. He has
a wife and four children; the two oldest are married and each
has presented them with a grandchild.

1916

N. C. Evans, recently discharged from the Army with the
rank of Lieutenant Colonel, is now with the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation in Louisville, Kentucky. He is tem-
porarily living with his daughter at 2620 Gladstone Avenue,
Louisville, until such time as he is able to secure an apartment.

J. C. Rivers writes his class agent: “1916-1946—30 years!
It is hard to believe, yet it’s true, as you and the other old-
timers who have lived through these hectic thirty years can
well appreciate, and | am sure you and the other members of
the Class of ’16 will never permit time to dim our interest and
affection for our Alma Mater. The days
spent on the campus, in the class rooms
with friends and associates will always
be a refreshing chapter in our book of
experience.” He has served with the War
Finance Committee, Commerce and In-
dustry Committee, Treasury Department,
New York City. Address: 250 Riverside
Drive, New York, New York.

Bruce F. Woodruff spent a few days
in Lexington at the opening of the fall
semester entering his son, Bruce, Jr., in
the freshman class. Bruce, Sr., is a mem-

ber of the law firm of Woodruff and
Etheridge, Haas-Howell Building, At-

lanta, Georgia.

W. C. (Bill) Raftery is Director of Du-
pont Employes’ Recreational Association,
Waynesboro, Virginia. He has two daughters in college, one
at Hollins, and one at Agnes Scott and a son studying law
at Virginia.

M. Brayden Ridenour is in the coal and building supplies
business, which has been somewhat strenuous on account of
the activities of Mr. John L. Lewis. On account of this his
wife very kindly writes a class letter for him. Address: 1115
Oak Hill Avenue, Hagerstown, Maryland.

Dr. R. P. Hawkins, Jr., is a member of the Surgical Staff
of the Chesapeake and Ohio Hospital, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

Ed Magers reports that he is still chief examiner in the
Department of Audits and Public Accounts of the State of
Georgia. Speaking of visits made to Lexington, Ed relates
a “highlight” of the 20th anniversary reunion in 1936: “One
lady sitting next to me in the Gym (in 1936) said to me: ‘Are
you graduating this year?’-—Wouldn’t you consider that a
high compliment for a man then 41 years of age?”

 

1917

C. R. Hill is President of Merchants & Miners National
Bank, Oak Hill, West Virginia, is engaged in many activities
including banking, real estate, lumber, mining and farming,
as well as entering his twentieth year as Mayor of the City of
Oak Hill. He has two sons at Woodberry Forest and trusts
that they will be interested in Washington and Lee.

George N. Danielson is with the U.S. Department of Jus-
tice Immigration and Naturalization Service, 1014 New Post

      

Office Building, Saint Paul, Minnesota. He says he has been
a subscriber to the Rockbridge County News since 1918, as
he likes to keep up with the people he knew here as a student.

A. Gallatin Paxton, recently discharged from the service
as a Brigadier-General, is now back in the cotton business,
A. G. Paxton Company, Delta Staples, Greenville, Mississipp1.

Clarence W. Carter, Warrenton, Virginia, gave up the po-
sition of Commonwealth’s attorney for his county in 1946, af-
ter seventeen years of service and since that time has been de-
voting all his time to civil practice. He is married and has two
sons, nine and eleven.

L. Dewoody (Chuck) Lyle has served two years as Prose-
cuting Attorney for the 11th Judicial District of Arkansas.
He is manager of the Claim Department of Taylor & Com-
pany, the largest real estate and insurance firm in Southeast
Arkansas. He has been specializing in in-
surance work and represents a number
of insurance firms for whom he adjusts
claims. He is married, has no children,
“ but he and his wife have reared a niece
* and nephew who lost their parents when
they were quite young.

(ass

es a es Robert B. McDougle is still practicing
S- law, with offices in the Citizen National
= = Bank Building, Parkersburg, West Vir-
ginia.

Dr. R. Glenn Craig, Class Agent for
'17-A, was a visitor to Lexington during
the summer. Address: 490 Post Street,
Room 521, San Francisco, California.

Li

me
. ,

oe Se
i
bh es
ws

Dr. S. Palmer Hileman has been en-
gaged in a large general practice of med-
icine in Millboro, Virginia. Both of his
sons are now out of the Navy.

Homer A. Jones is Executive President of the Washington
Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. His
older son, Homer, Jr., received an LL. B. from Washington
and Lee in 1942. His younger son returned home safely last
March after two years service in the E. T. O.

1918

Edmund D. Campbell and his family were week-end vis-
tors to Lexington in July. Ed is a member of the law firm of
Douglas, Obear and Campbell, Southern Building, Washing-
ton, D.C. His son, E. D., Jr., is a freshman at Washington
and Lee.

Homer A. (Rocky) Holt was in Lexington for the meet-
ing of the University Board of Trustees, of which he is a
member, at Finals. He is a member of the law firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Building, West Vir-
ginia.

John Dudley McCready was a Chaplain in the Army and
was stationed for some time at Camp Adair, Oregon. He is
now out of the service and pastor of the First Baptist Church,
Morganton, North Carolina. He married an Alabama girl and
they have a small daughter four years old. Address: 105 South
King Street, Morganton, North Carolina.

John L. McChord is a member of the law firm of Calfee,
Fogg, McChord and Halter. The firm name was recently
changed to the above and they also have a new address at
1717 Union Commerce Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

[21]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John H. Sorrells is still Executive Editor for Scripps-
Howard Newspapers, 230 Park Avenue, New York. His son,
John H., Jr., is now a student in the University, and is ac-
companied by his wife.

Murray C. Shoun is a member of the firm of Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner and Beane, 25 North Pryor Street, Atlanta 8,
Georgia. He spent a week-end in Lexington in April and saw
a lot of his old friends.

Matthew W. Paxton is still engaged in the many activities
connected with his law practice and publishing the Rockbridge
County News, in Lexington. His oldest son is now out of
the service and has re-entered Washington and Lee.

Samuel E. Moreton had a little over two years as a Lieu-
tenant in the C. E. Corps, U.S. N. R., on the island of Oahu
(Pearl Harbor and vicinity). He was home on leave on V-J
Day, and is now discharged. Home: 721 South Church Street,
Brookhaven, Mississippi.

1919

W. F. Barron, in the Coca-Cola Bottling business in Rome,
Georgia, complains of the sugar shortage. He was a visitor to
the campus in November.

Leonard T. Brown thinks that he is possibly the first
grand-father in the Class of 1919, and also claims the distinc-
tion of being the first alumnus in any class to have a son-in-
law enter Washington and Lee. His son-in-law, Glenn Chaffer,
is now a student here, bringing along his wife and young
son. He may be the first grand-father in the class, but there
are several sons-in-law of alumni now in school. Cy Young,
Alumni Secretary, thinks he might hold the honor of being
the first grand-father in the Class of ’17, having a 2% year
old grandson. Address: 700 West Jackson Avenue, Bridgeport,
Connecticut.

John D. Goodin is now out of the service and practicing
law as an Associate in the offices of William J. Carter, John-
son City, Tennessee.

1920

Emmett W. Poindexter, the energetic secretary of the
New York Alumni Chapter, was a visitor to the campus for
Finals. He is with the law firm of Riggs, Ferris, Geer and
Mygatt, 120 Broadway, New York. He reports on a very suc-
cessful Dinner Dance at the Hotel Pierre Roof Garden on
May 10, at which Dr. and Mrs. Gaines were the guests of
honor.

Colonel Willis M. Everett, after over five years service
in World War II, a graduate of the Second Post Hostilities
Course at Columbia University given by the war Depart-
ment, found himself, upon arrival in Germany, drafted by War
Crimes and within a week in the largest trial, and probably
the most important to America—the Malmedy Massacre dur-
ing the Battle of the Bulge. He is Chief Defense Counsel for
seventy-four of these S.S. boys, three Generals and many
famous soldiers of Germany once known as super men. He is
in Dachan, Germany and hopes to have his wife and 11 year
old son join him there this summer.

William E. Johnston says he is still struggling with the
sugar business. He is with the American Sugar Refining Com-
pany, Board of Trade Building, Boston, Massachusetts.

Joe Richardson has been operating the Hillview Farm, a
cotton and live stock plantation, at Ridgeland, Mississippi, for

the past twenty years. He married a Mississippi girl and they
have two small boys and hopes they will go to Washington
and Lee. He says he is not noted for the number of personal
letters he writes but that he thinks often and fondly of the
friends of his Washington and Lee days and hopes and plans
to renew acquaintance with them at some time.

Joe C. Hobson, Prestonsburg, Kentucky, was a recent vis-
itor to the campus. His step-son, Fred Cottrell, now dis-
charged from the Army, is back in school here.

Pinkney Grissom, Class Agent for Law-’20, is still practic-
ing law with the firm of Thompson, Knight, Harris, Wright
and Weisberg, Republic Bank Building, Dallas 1, Texas, with
whom he has been associated either as an employee or partner
since April, 1921. He has been a partner since 1933. His two
older sons Pinckney, Jr., and John are married, and he now
has a grandson, John, Jr.

H. S. Powell is engaged in business in Wauchapreague,
Virginia. He says the only items of interest he has to report
are a two year old grandson and a three year old grand-
daughter.

1921

Gray Funkhouser is still teaching mathematics at Exeter,
New Hampshire. He was a visitor to Lexington last May,
where he enjoyed seeing his many old friends, and promises
to make the trip more frequently in the future.

Gayle G. Armstrong is Assistant Administrator of Pro-
duction and Merchandising of the Department of Agriculture.
His son, Billie Bert Armstrong, was a student in the Law
School here from 1939 to 1941. Home address: Box 873, Ros-
well, New Mexico.

Ed Westbrook, Jr., is a member of the law firm of West-
brooke & Westbrooke, Jonesboro, Arkansas. He says he is
afraid to come back to the campus for fear the younger gen-
eration will feel about him as he did when he had to cart an
alumnus six years older than himself around and dreaded the
effect it would have on his prestige when he introduced him
to the Sweet Young Things at Finals.

Dr. John T. Bate is just getting straightened out after three
years in the Army, during which he served as Chief of Sur-
gical Service in several hospitals in the Fourth Service Com-
mand. He is practicing his profession at 301 West Ormsby
Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky.

Lewis S. Musgrove, his wife and daughter were in Lex-
ington for Finals. Lewis is with the United States Guarantee
Company, 90 John Street, New York, New York.

Milling Bernstein is practicing law in the Ouachita Na-
tional Bank Building, Monroe, Louisiana. His daughter,
Cherry Louise, is a student at Randolph Macon. He and his
family were visitors to Lexington last fall.

Frank M. Pollock is Manager of the Tidewater Adjust-
ment Company, 640 New Monroe Building, Norfolk 10, Vir-
ginia. Reports the birth of a son, Alexander Pollock on Oc-
tober 15, 1945.

Frank Love is a member of the law firm of Love and Love,
Love Building, Fayetteville, West Virginia. His son, Frank,
Jr., is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Richard W. Cole has been in the insurance business for
twenty-five years. Is now with The Travelers, Richmond,
Virginia. His son, Richard W., Jr., after three and a half

| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

years as a Flight Pilot in the Marine Air Corps, is now a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee.

W. Courtney King is practicing law in the Colonial Bank
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. His son, Courtney, Jr., ’41-’43,
after three and a half years in the service is now back at
Washington and Lee in the Law School.

George D. Felix, with the State Highway Department of
Virginia, has recently been moved from Bristol, Virginia to
Staunton, Virginia. He and his wife were visitors to the cam-
pus in October. Address: Edgewood Apartments, North Au-
gusta Street, Staunton, Virginia.

1922

Houston St. Clair, president Jewel Ridge Coal Company,
Tazewell, Virginia, member of the University Board of Trus-
tees, says he has spent considerable time in Washington re-
cently as a coal miner. He was in Lexington for Finals.

W. J. L. Patton has recently become the
owner of a home, for the first time in his life,
at 82 Rockrose Place, Forest Hills, New
York. He says it was of necessity and not
by choice. He is Assistant Comptroller, Na-
tional City Bank, New York, New York.

Dr. Andrew E. Amick, President of the
West Virginia State Medical Association,
delivered the address before the Annual
Meeting of the Association on May 13, 1946,
in Huntington, West Virginia.

J. G. Allen is now Executive Vice-Presi-
dent of The Peoples Bank, Flemingsburg,
Kentucky.

Harry Robert, until recently sports writer on The Evening
Bulletin, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has changed jobs and
is now with The Record, for which he writes a daily sport
column, plus other assignments.

W. A. (Abie) Williams, discharged as a Commander of a
Seabee battalion, is now back with Ruffin & Payne, home
building service, Richmond, Virginia. Both of his sons were
also in the Navy and it was a great pleasure to him to be
with one of them for several days on Okinawa. The older of
the two boys, Kim, is now a student here.

Robert M. (Cubby) Bear is head of the Department of
Psychology at Dartmouth College. He is much interested in
the revision of the college curriculum made necessary by
present world conditions.

1923

T. M. Wade, Jr., after a year of post-graduate work at
Washington and Lee and instructing, went to West Virginia
as a chemist where he remained about three years, since then
has been with Brown & Williamson and associated companies
since 1927. He was married in 1933 and they have a son, 11
and two daughters 8 and 6. Address: P. O. Box 539, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Dr. John H. Bonner, practices his profession in the Caro-
lina Building, Elizabeth City, North Carolina. This is a de-
lightful place to live with “Nag’s Head” beach, near enough
for summer vacationing.

J. Bruce Gordon says that Washington and Lee should
make his class agent, George Mason, Chairman of the Fi-

 

nance Committee and the University would be rolling “in
the stuff.” Bruce is in the lumber business in Murphy, North
Carolina.

B. Palmer Orr lives at 510 East Beach, Pass Christian,
Mississippi. After Pearl Harbor he served until August 1945,
when he was transferred to the Internal Revenue Service,
where he is now working.

Ed. Bozeman, Jr., is a member of the firm of Woodson &
Bozeman, wholesale distributors, 482 Union Avenue, Mem-
phis, Tennessee. He was a visitor to the campus this summer.

Bernie H. Hampton is in his third year as Pastor of Keith
Memorial Methodist Church, Athens, Tennessee. He has a
wife and three daughters, Mary Adeli, 17, Sue Marie, 12, and
Bernice, 10.

R. Maurice Frew is now in business for himself under the
firm name of Springs & Frew, Realtors, 110A East Fourth
Street,

.

Charlotte, North Carolina. He has two daughters,
seventeen and fourteen.

David H. Matson is Operating Manager
of Electrical Companies in South America,
Cia. De Electricidad Del Sud Argentino,
S. A. Address: Av. R.S. Pena 680, Buenos
Aires, Argentino.

French R. McKnight has been with Mc-
Knight Veneers, Incorporated, in his home
town, Helena, Arkansas, since leaving Wash-
ington and Lee.

George H. Bowers has been with the Du-
Pont Company for 21 years. For the past
four years has been making powder—mostly
1 T. N. T.—and A. D.X., at plants in Illinois,
New Jersey and Indiana. His older son, George, III, received
a B.S. in Chemistry from Washington and Lee in 1944, be-
fore going into the Navy. He has now been discharged.

A. J. Lester, Jr., has been with the Bassett Furniture Com-
pany, since 1932 as salesman for the Southwest. He and his
family lived in Dallas, Texas from 1937-1943, and hopes to
return there as soon as the housing situation improves. Home:
1010 Sheraton Court, Martinsville, Virginia.

George T. Holbrook is Assistant Secretary of The Cen-
tury Indemnity Company and of the Standard Surety and
Casualty Company the two casualty and surety companies of
the Aetna Insurance Group, headed by the Aetna Fire In-
surance Company of which W. Ross McCain, ’98, is presi-
dent. He and his son were visitors to the campus in June.

Robert B. Stuart was recommissioned in the Marine Corps
on June 2, 1942, and got out again in December 1943, with the
rank of Captain. His son, has been with the famed “Red
Mike” fighter squadron, 533 First Marine Air Wing, near
Pieping, China. He enlisted at 17 and had been on duty for
27 months at the time his father’s letter was written in May
1946.

Robert H. Carr, class agent for Law ’23, is president of
R. H. Carr Lumber Company, Jasper, Alabama. His son
Robert H., Jr., is now a student at Washington and Lee.

1924

Louis H. Towbes for the past twenty years, since leaving
Washington and Lee, has been continuously engaged in the
Real Estate development and building business in Wash-

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ington, D. C. He has a son Michael and daughter Carol Lee,
ages 17 and 15 respectively. He was building a summer home
on the Chesapeake Bay where he expects to spend a good
bit of time hunting and fishing, and generally take it easy on
the semi-retired side. Address: 1104 Vermont Avenue, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

David Pointer is president and cashier of the State Bank
of Como, Como, Mississippi. He married a Memphis girl in
1926 and has one daughter and two sons. Hopes to send his
sons to Washington and Lee in a few years.

Edwin H. Howard was on leave of absence for three years,
two of which were spent with the OPA as Price Economist
and one with Fairchild Aircraft as Cost Accountant. He is
now back teaching Accounting at Washington and Lee.

H. Ogden Shropshire is still running his own securities
business which he started in 1939 after having served an ap-
prenticeship beginning immediately after graduation. Address:
Shropshire & Company, Investment Securities, First National
Bank Annex, Mobile, Alabama.

Wyatt French, class agent for 1924-A, has been in the
housefurnishing field for twenty-two years and is now Mer-
chandising Manager, Home Furnishing Division, Miller and
Rhoads. He married Katherine Kirkland in 1928 and they
have two sons and two daughters. Address: 6419 Three Chopt
Road, Richmond 21, Virginia.

Otis W. Howe is Vice-President of the Howe Lumber
Company, Incorporated, Wabash, Arkansas. He has quit the
saw mill business now since all the timber has run out, and
all his attention is devoted to farming with cotton still the
chief money crop but cattle and small grain beginning to be
more important. He has a fine family consisting of a wife
and three sons, 16, 12, and 2. He and his wife and the two
older boys were visitors to Lexington during the summer.
Otis, Jr., will be a freshman here next year.

Notes by Wyatt French, Class Agent

Francis Plowman is Vice-President of Scott Paper Co.,
Chester, Pennsylvania. (ScotTissue, ScotTowels). Francis has
two daughters. He reports that Philadelphia has a very ac-
tive alumni group. Francis also reports that he travels a lot,
and may drop in to see any of us, anytime. Francis, we will
take that as a promise. We will be looking for you.

Johnny Guerrant, wholesale paper executive, was your
class agent last year and did a remarkable job. This year, he
is resting on his laurels and wouldn’t even write us a letter,
although his usual prompt contribution was received with
pleasure. Johnny, like most Richmonders, enjoys life greatly.
He takes a great deal of pride in his lovely Francis, and his
delightful sub-deb daughter, Kitty.

Dr. Joe McMath was in the Navy 3% years, and is now
practicing at 505 Wyoming Avenue, Lockland, Cincinnati 15,
Ohio. Joe didn’t tell us whether he still retains all of his
curly hair. In fact, the only personal information available
is that he has two daughters.

John Hendon sent the outstanding letter, because it con-
tained personal information in which we are all interested,
and also contained a storehouse of information for the Alumni
Office. John owns Hendon’s Parking & Service Stations,
1631 Third Avenue, N., Birmingham, Alabama. Howard Leake
is the General Manager of the organization. Johnny was in
the Navy three years, and Howard ran the business while
Johnny was away. John was in charge of a Ground Training

School for naval aviation cadets. He reports he has gained
forty pounds. His fine letter exhibits an active interest in
everything and everybody pertaining to Washington and Lee.

Berry Brooks has furnished us with our rotogravure page
nominee. In addition to operating a very successful cotton
business Berry has just returned from two months in old
Mexico on a jaguar hunt, spends about six months out of each
year in the wilderness, and is leaving next February for a
six months safari in Africa. Except for the big game hunting,
he sounds like the same old Berry. He has “the same wife he
has had for seventeen years, and a thirteen year old daugh-
ter.” Address: 121 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee.

William S. (Shorty) Gay, is Professor of Business Ad-
ministration, V.P.I., Blacksburg, Virginia, after serving
Uncle Sam for four years. Shorty made your class agent feel
natural—Shorty wanted to know why we hadn’t shipped him
some merchandise as quickly as we had promised. All right,
Shorty, we'll get the book cases as soon as we can. Shorty
tells us that his oldest youngster is ten years old, and let’s
us guess about the other(s). Sometime ago, Shorty was a
Major. He didn’t tell us his last status—perhaps a Lieutenant-
Colonel.

Tom Lee’s contribution reached Cy Young direct, so we
didn’t have a letter from Tom. He is a doctor in Kinston,
North Carolina; Kinston Clinic Building. Tom, how is our
old friend PeeWee Ross getting along?

Edwin J. Gibson, Box 63, Estill, Kentucky, is still a great
coal-mine engineer. Since he married Miss Irene Depew
about twenty-one years ago, the box-score is: one boy, two
girls. That is a nice family, best of luck, Ed.

Charles H. Wilson graduated from medical college and
settled in Danville, Virginia. He married Virginia Woodall
of Richmond, and has three boys: ages, 18, 16, and 14. Ad-
dress: 320 Forest Hills, Danville. His oldest boy will be at
Washington and Lee either this year or next.

Stuart McCorkle is Professor of Government and Director
of Municipal Research at University of Texas. This summer,
he will be visiting Professor of Municipal Government at
the University of Illinois, and will return to Washington and
Lee for a brief visit in August. He was elected an alumni
member of Phi Beta Kappa recently at Washington and Lee.

C. Fred Carlson, President, Monarch Elevator & Machine
Company, Greensboro, North Carolina, did foreign travel
for Vick Chemical, then became connected with the company
of which he is President in 1934. He married Katherine Whar-
ton, of Greensboro. Two children, a boy, 15, and a girl, 11.
There are times when he feels no older than when he was in
eee even though his hair is getting gray and decidedly
thin.

1925

Conrad T. Altfather lives at Rankin Avenue, Basking
Ridge, New Jersey. He says he has been “an innocent by-
stander” in one of the recent strikes. He has been with West-
inghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company for over
twenty years.

Dr. C. T. Burton is still practicing eye, ear, nose, and
throat, suite 609 Medical Arts Building, Roanoke, Virginia.
He and his wife have three children, two girls and a boy, ages
seven, five, and two respectively.

Harold D. St. John is with H. W. St. John & Company,
freight brokers and forwarding agents, 18 Pearl Street, New

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

York 4, New York. He has been on the campus several times
since graduation but does not expect to return again until
1950 when he brings his son to school.

H. R. Jenkins, sells mules, horses, vehicles and saddlery,
Fayetteville, North Carolina. He has three boys, “Monk,”
“Shorty,” and “Romeo.” The latter played quarterback on
the local high school team, and his father hopes he will come
to Washington and Lee.

H. F. (Bo) McMillan, class agent for 1925-A, has lived in
Athens, Tennessee, since 1929, and is in the coal and ice busi-
ness. They have a boy sixteen and a girl fourteen. The boy has
been at T. M. I. for three years and was quarterback on the
football team last fall and is Captain of this year’s basketball
team.

Julian W. Ross, after living in Kinston, North Carolina
for eighteen years, moved to Elizabeth City,
North Carolina in 1943. He*has his own
business, Ross Oil Company, Agent Co-
lonial Oil Company, Inc., distributors of
Pure Oil products. He has two sons, Julian,
Jr., sixteen, and William O., fourteen. Both
boys are in the high school band and the
oldest was manager of the basketball team
the past year.

Maurice C. Langhorne is still teaching /
in the Department of Psychology at Emory '
University. He reports the birth of a
daughter, Kay Summers, March 11, 1946.
Address: Emory University, Emory Uni-
versity, Georgia.

Charles L. Gaines, Jr., sold his business
in Jacksonville, Florida, a year ago and
joined his father-in-law’s firm, Shook and
Fletcher Supply Company. In addition to the various activi-
ties of this company they have large coal mining and lumber
operations. He has been married for six years and they have
two sons, Charles, III, 4% years old, and Hansel Shook
Gaines, 2% years old.

Sam Bucholtz, Jacksonville, Florida, said in his interesting
letter that the class letter was “a much needed stimulant to
one who is getting both bald and gray.” It will be a surprise, I
know, to the other members of the class to know that one
of our fellows is getting bald and gray. By the time of the
reunion, however, it may be that one or two others are in the
same shape. Sam also said that one of his two boys enters
high school next year “and the question of college is becom-
ing one of the more important topics of our discussion.”

M. F. (Buck) Baugher, Palm Beach, Florida, writes that
he is still practicing law at Palm Beach and “working harder
than ever.” Buck didn’t say whether he was working harder
at practicing law or deep sea fishing, but it is generally known
he is expert and adept at both.

Millar White, 1016 N. W., 38th Street, Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma, has two sons in Washington and Lee this year,
M. B., Jr., and W. G.

Ted Simmons is associated with W. H. Markham & Com-
pany, 16th Floor, Railway Exchange, St. Louis, Missouri.
He was in the Army for three years with the Office of Stra-
tegic Services and spent a year overseas, where he was Per-
sonnel Officer for OSS in the European Theatre. Was dis-
charged with the rank of Major. He is married and has two
little daughters, Jane, 5, and Susan, 3.

 

1926

Kenneth C. Kimbrough, care of E. C. Denaux, Incor-
porated, 1723 Union Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee, is out of
the Army with the rank of Captain. “I went into the Army
August, 1942,” he writes “as a buck private, was shipped over-
seas that very fall after three months basic; was with the
8th Air Force, stationed in England until after VE day. I
was doing Intelligence work all the time, serving under Gen-
eral Le May until he was pulled for the Pacific. I was as-
signed to General Gerhart in the spring of 1944 and be-
came his Intelligence Officer and eventually his aid de camp.
The job was interesting and gave me an opportunity to get
many places. I travelled with him in France, Australia, even
had a two and a half weeks rest and recuperation on the Riv-
iera with him in the spring of 1945. I came back to Washing-

ton with him after VE day.” Kim is still single “have no pros-

pects and guess I shall continue to enjoy
single bliss.” He is vice-president of Den-
aux, Inc., interior decorators of Memphis.

P. M. (Si) Schuchart, care of Virginia
Telephone and Telegraph Company, Char-
lottesville, Virginia, has been transferred
from Harrisonburg to Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, office of the Virginia Telephone and
Telegraph Company. “I am moving my
family to Charlottesville, having purchased
a house adjoining the University of Vir-
ginia grounds, rank treason for a Wash-
ington and Lee man.”

William R. (Bill) Marchman, Fort Val-
ley, Georgia, writes: “Have just returned
from a hurried trip out to Shanghai to
have a second look-see. Things were much
too upset to take a chance on having my

family out with me, but will probably have to fly out again

this fall to check up on my exchange and stock market busi-
ness”.

John G. (Jack) McGiffin, care of McGiffin and Company,
Jacksonville, Florida, is back in civvies after five years ser-
vice in the Navy. He is a “steamship and forwarding agent.”

Edward A. Dodd, 513 Emery Road, Louisville, Kentucky;
is married; two children with “the boy already enrolled at
Washington and Lee.” Ed is a partner in the law offices of
Dodd and Dodd, Louisville. “I came to Louisville; went to
work for the Louisville Tithe Company examining titles and
to night school at the Jefferson School of Law. I took the
Bar examination September 19, 1927; went back to Jefferson
and procured my LL. b. degree in 1928. I became a partner
here of my first cousin, Allen P. Dodd, Sr., the Dodds hav-
ing practiced law here since 1869.” Ed was president of the
Kentucky State Bar Association in 1945 and president of the
Louisville Bar Association in 1938.

G. N. (Buddy) May, Pine Bluff, Arkansas, has been the
official Court Reporter for the Eleventh Judicial district,
State of Arkansas “most of the years since leaving Wash-
ington and Lee.” He is married, has a son fifteen and a daugh-
ter twelve. “They keep their Dad quite busy.”

C. Carter Lee is a Commonwealth’s Attorney at Rocky
Mount, Virginia.

Clarence Meadows, Executive Department, State of West
Virginia, Charleston, West Virginia, is Governor of West
Virginia. He is married and has three children.

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jack Chapman, Smithfield, Virginia, returned to the States
in June after five years in the Army. He entered as a pri-
vate in June 1941 and was discharged as a major. He was a
Combat Intelligence Officer with the 505th Bombardment
Group, a B-29 outfit, and spent fifteen months in Tinian. He
made four trips over Japan—a mining mission, a weather
mission, a daylight precision bombing mission and a night
incendiary attack—‘‘just for the hell of it.” He’s back at his
old teaching post at Woodberry Forest School. Still single,
he writes.

D. C. (Digby) West is president of the First National
Bank at Berryville, Arkansas. He was pleased to have a visit
from Kenneth Durham, president of the Rollins Hosiery
Mill, who was in Berryville looking for a plant location.
“Wish we could all get together at Washington and Lee for
a reunion,” he writes.

J. Lukin Brown is in the Drug business at Silex, Missouri.
He is Chairman of the Democratic Central Committee, Silex,
Missouri.

W. Randolph Cosby is with W. G. Cosby Transfer, 11-13
South 12th Street, Richmond 19, Virginia. His son W. Ran-
dolph, Jr., is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Charles Henry Hamilton, Managing Editor of the Rich-
mond News Leader, was elected to O. D. K. at the University
of Richmond recently.

1927

Jim Wilbourn returned to civilian life after service with
the Navy in January, 1946, and is now back with his law firm,
Wilbourn, Miller and Wilbourn, in Meridian, Mississippi. He
and hs family stopped over for a short visit in Lexington on
their way home from Washington, D. C.

Marvin Eugene (Buster) Newbern is manager of The
College Bookstore, at Arkansas State Teachers College, Con-
way, Arkansas. His wife is Dean of Women at the College.
They have a son 16 years old, 6 feet, 3 inches tall, who will
enter Columbia Military Academy this fall, and later, he hopes,
will come to Washington and Lee.

Allen Harris, Jr., discharged with the rank of Commander
after four years in the Navy, is now Vice-President of the
Harris Lumber Company, Johnson City, Tennessee.

Billy Wilson is practicing law in Lynchburg, Virginia, af-
ter four years in the Navy. He was a Lieutenant Commander
and shore based in the Pacific at Hollandia, New Guinea;
Olongapo, Luzon, Philippine Islands; and on the staff of
Commander Philippine Sea Frontier at Manila. After the war
ended he went over to Singapore and Calcutta and then home.

Matt Jennings says: “I am now 40 and fattening, bald-
headed but happy.” He married Elizabeth Gossom, from
Oklahoma, in 1930, and they have a 12 year-old son, “—who
fortunately inherited very desirable characteristics from his
mother.” He has been interested in breeding registered Jer-
sey cattle and for the past seven years has been secretary-
treasurer of the Tennessee Jersey Cattle Club, the largset
State Jersey Club in America. For the past two years he has
been connected with the Department of Agriculture, as Chief
of the Division of Markets. He and his brother Jim, live in
Fayetteville, Tennessee and operate two 300 acre farms.

A. Z. Litz, Jr., spent three and a half years in the army
with twenty month’s service in Europe, participating in five
campaigns there. His home is in Tazewell, Virginia.

Roy Nichols is Musical Director at Blair Junior High
School in Norfolk, Virginia. He took a chorus of 110 and
two other groups of 50 to Richmond last spring to the State
Contest and walked off with top honors of sixty-one groups.
He also has a large group of private pupils. His hobby is
rose growing and he has over 1400 bushes in his garden.

Charlie Claunch is a member of the law firm of Taber,
Chambliss, Swafford & Claunch, Chattanooga Bank Building,
Chattanooga 2, Tennessee. He was in Lexington recently
and says he was very much impressed with the present stu-
dent body and the morale of the students. He is president of
the Chattanooga Alumni Chapter.

W. E. (Steam) Gage writes that they are no longer in the
cotton business but had to forclose a lot of land after 1930,
and his job has been farming this land while liquidating the
business. The job is almost done now and he is buying a farm
and moving to Pine Bluff, if, as, and when he can find some
sheetrock, siding, windows and doors, and a few other items
necessary for the completion of the home he is building there.

Rhea Whitley, discharged from the Navy as a Commander,
has recently taken the Florida State Bar Examination, and
says he is now a country lawyer, with offices in the Arcade
Building, Delray Beach, Florida.

1928

William C. Norman is now treasurer of a group of com-
panies of the Crossett Lumber Company, Manufacturers of
Forest Products, Crosset, Arkansas. He is also serving on
the Board of Directors. He says his family has not changed
except that his youngsters are growing up with a son who is
11 and a daughter, 8.

Charles E. Branham is now National Advertising Manager
for The Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Georgia.

Waldo Dunnington is now professor of German in North-
western State College, Nachitoches, Louisiana.

William P. Woodley is with the Columbian Peanut Com-
pany, Norfolk, Virginia. He was recently elected Vice-Presi-
dent of the Norfolk chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni.

1929

William Watson, now discharged from the Navy with the
rank of Lieutenant Commander, has returned to China for
his old job with Standard Vacuum Oil Company. His ad-
dress in China is: care of Standard Vacuum Oil Company,
Hongkong and Shanghai, Bank Building, Hongkong, China.

Allen B. Morgan is now out of the Navy and back with the
First National Bank of Memphis as Executive Vice-President.

Henry P. Johnston, Class Agent for the Academic Class
of 1929, and recently elected member of the Alumni Board
of Trustees, had a vacation trip to Ponte Vedra, Florida, in
July, which we know he deserved after his strenuous and
successful efforts as class agent. He is now back in Birming-
ham, Alabama, as Executive Vice-President of WSGN, The
News-Age-Herald Station.

William A. McDonough is now with General Mills, In-
corporated, Home Appliance Department. Address: 4379
Browndale Avenue, Minneapolis 10, Minnesota.

Lieutenant Colonel William B. Lott, Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Department, served in the Middle Pacific Theatre for

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

three and a half years, receiving the Bronze Star in September
1945. He is now discharged from the service. Address: 160
Rapier Avenue, Mobile, Alabama.

James J. (Jimmy) Salinger got out of the Army last Oc-
tober. He says he is back at his old stand working hard as
Associate with Huff, Dreyer & Company, Insurance, 75
Maiden Lane, New York 7, New York.

P. C. (Bunny) Whitlock, member of the Alumni Board of
Trustees, is still with the West Virginia Pulp and Paper
Company, Covington, Virginia.

Robert E. Lee is now out of the service and is with the
Bankers Trust Company, 16 Wall Street, New York.

William Fleming Chandler is Vice-President and Indus-
trial Sales Manager for Porter Paint Company, 14th and Ce-
dar Streets, Louisville, Kentucky. He is
married and has two children, a boy, 4,
and a girl, 1. He won the Louisville Coun-
try Club golf championship.

Jim Castner was discharged from the
Army on May 6, 1946, and is now settling
down to civilian status. Address: 408
Walnut Street, Nutley 10, New Jersey.

Harry Rand writes from Oak Hill
Farm, Burleson, Texas, but gives no up-
to-date news of his activities.

P. D. Gwaltney is a member of the
firm of P. D. Gwaltney, Jr., & Company,
selling Smithfield hams, Smithfield, Vir-
ginia.

Arnold Schlossberg is now President
of the Central Manufacturing Corpora-
tion, Roanoke, Virginia, engaged in the manufacture of lum-
ber, custom millwork and the sale of building materials. It is
a full-time job.

Irwin T. Sanders is now back in the department of Sociol-
ogy at the University of Kentucky. His year overseas with the
State Department was very valuable because it gave him a
chance to see how much the Balkans had changed since he
was there with the American College, Sofia, Bulgaria. Dur-
ing the war he was Balkan Specialist of the office of Foreign
Agricultural Relations. His greatest thrill was meeting J. A.
Love, ’29, at a 1945 Christmas Eve Party in Sofia Bulgaria.
They had both been in Dr. Neff’s English class at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Walter C. P. Weaver, Sr., is with the Nehi Bottling Com-
pany at Emporia, Virginia. He is married and has two sons,
Walter, Jr., 9, and Roland, 6.

F. C. Proctor, Jr., now out of the Army, is practicing law
in Victoria, Texas. He says the only comfort about the Army
episode is that he knows he will be too old for the next war.

Dr. William T. Black, now out of the service, is back in
his professional work in the Physicians and Surgeons Build-
ing, Memphis, Tennessee.

Edwin T. Madison was discharged from the Ariny on Jan-
uary 3, 1946, with the rank of Major in the Air Corps, having
served approximately nine months overseas at Harmon Field,
Guam with the 20th Air Force. His last assignment was Legal
Officer of that field. On January 20, 1946, he was married to

     
   

Gladys Z. Talton of Monroe, Louisiana. He has resumed the
practice of law with the firm of Madison, Madison & Files at
Bastrop in February of last year.

Julius G. Berry, now out of the service, is back in Tupelo,
Mississippi, with the Tupelo Insurance Agency, at 311 West
Main Street. He is still unmarried and is busy with civic and
social activites.

Earnest E. Sanders is a busy lawyer in the general civil
practice. He has two sons and hopes they will go to Wash-
ington and Lee. He is a member of the firm of Simon, Wynn,
Sanders & Jones, Fort Worth National Bank Building, Fort
Worth, Texas.

Dr. O. Norris Smith received his final discharge from the
Army Medical Corps on March 25, 1946, having attained the
rank of ee He is now back in practice in Greensboro,
North Carolina. He is married and has a
son, Henry Louis, II, age, five-plus.

ge

—=—e-

—

George H. Goodwin was discharged
from the Army March 5, 1946, having at-
tained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
His home is in Bastrop, Louisiana.

Ben Eastwood lives at 1926 Milan
Street, New Orleans 18, Louisiana.

we J. L. Lockett, Jr., is now the junior
Vy partner in the law firm of Kelley, Lock-
- ett & Lockett, Gulf Building, Houston 2,

Texas. Formerly he was with the firm of
Andrews, Kelly, Kurth and Campbell,
which has now been dissolved. His work

which was for the Missouri Pacific Rail-
road and its bus, truck and air subsidiar-
+ ies, will continue the same. He says he is
E é away from home so much that he almost
needs to be reintroduced to his two sons.

Charles D. Mercke, now released from the Coast Guard,
is with the Jefferson Wood Working Company, Louisville,
Kentucky.

J. M. Shackelford was released from the Army in Jan-
uary 1946, with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and is again
with the Johns Manville Company in their Planning Depart-
ment of General Headquarters in New York. He has pur-
chased a home at 25 Clinton Place, Metuchen, New Jersey.

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, since leaving Washington and Lee,
has been in the regular practice of law and has served four
terms in the State Legislature of Virginia, representing the
City of Roanoke. He was defeated in the last August primary
and is not now in politics. His offices are in the State and
City Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

W. C. P. Weaver is now discharged from the Army but is
still in the Virginia State Guard. He has two sons, one, 7, and
the other, 10, and is still married to the same girl with whom
he went while at Washington and Lee and she was attending
Hollins. He is with the Nehi Bottling Company, Emporia, Vir-
ginia.

Lewis F. Powell spent the latter part of his Army service
as a member of General Spatz’ Staff, serving in Algiers, Tunis-
ia, Italy, England, France, and Germany; during the latter
stages of the war was Chief of the Operational Intelligence Di-
vision of the Directorate of Intelligence for Headquarters,
United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe; was promoted

[ 27 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

at various times, becoming full Colonel in the summer of 1945.
He returned to this country in November 1945, after having
served for several months as American Air Intelligence Rep-
resentative at the British Air Ministry; went off active duty
on February 14, 1946; was awarded the Legion of Merit,
Bronze Star and Croix de Guerre with Palms. Now practic-
ing law in Richmond, Virginia, with the firm of Hunton, Wil-
liams, Anderson, Gay and Moore.

R. W. Hawkins, Box 270, Marion, Virginia, has been with
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey since leaving school, as
a salesman. He has a beautiful wife, and a very fine boy of
12, a future Washington and Lee back, and a very attractive
daughter.

1930

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton entered the service January 10,
1942, as a member of the Washington University Medical
School Unit, General Hospital, No. 21; was later transferred
to the Air Force and stationed at the Army Air Force Region-
al Hospital, San Antonio Aviation Cadet Center, San Antonio,
Texas, where he was chief of the Allergy section. Later, the
Army Air Force Allergy Laboratory was established at this
hospital under his direction, where were prepared all the al-
lergenic extracts used in the entire Air Force. From that
time on he served as one of the three consultants in AI-
lergy in the Army Air Force and was co-author of the Of-
ficial Manual of Allergy for the Air Force. He was married
on March 26, 1942, and is the father of a baby girl. He was
discharged from the service January 2, 1946. Address: Beau-
mont Medical Building, 3720 Washington Boulevard, St.
Louis, Missouri.

John H. Nelson is in the tobacco business (auction) with
Banner Warehouse, Danville, Virginia. He has been married
for fourteen years and they have a thirteen-year-old daughter.

Major Charley Cocke reported to the Transportation
Corps, OCS at Fort Eustis, Virginia, after two month’s leave,
as he is returning to the Army for another year. He was an
instructor with this school before going overseas. Address:
3 Edmondson Avenue, Lexington, Virginia.

Philo Lindsey is still engaged in the retail lumber busi-
ness having moved to a new and better location in October of
last year. He says: “The company employs an average of seven
persons and although its operation is not large, it has shown
satisfactory profit considering the difficulties with which we
are confronted at the present time.” He reports the birth of
a daughter on June 7.

Jack Williamson finished four years of service in the Navy
last November, part of which was in Australia, New Guinea
and the Philippines, and is now an ex-Lieutenant Commander.
He is back in the law firm of Adams, Nelson & Williamson,
39 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois.

W. E. R. Byrne, Jr., when his class letter was written in
April, was planning to go into the accounting field for him-
self in Yuma, Arizona. Address: 155 North 6th Avenue, Yuma,
Arizona.

Albert Steves, III, got out of the Army last October as a
Major and is now back in San Antonio as President of the
Steves Lumber Companies.

L. P. Brown, III, writes: “My status since last writing
may be summarized as follows: Same number of children
(one daughter); same number of wives (one); same number
of meals per day; a few more strokes on the golf course;

same amount of whiskey (but more rum as collateral); a lit-
tle more time-mellowed appreciation of the Alma Mater,
hence slight increase in check.” Address: L. P. Brown Com-
pany, Memphis, Tennessee.

Benjamin L. Rawlins has been appointed general attorney
of Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation. Address: 434 Seventh
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

1931

Dr. L. Alexander Vance says he has been using his inside
pocket for an office since getting out of the Navy, but is now
squared off after quite a battle for equipment, etc. Address:
16 Atlantic Street, Lynn, Massachusetts.

Dr. John O. McNeel, discharged from the Army Medical
Corps with the rank of Colonel is now practicing medicine in
Marlinton, West Virginia.

Sid Clay, discharged with the rank of Captain after three
and a half years overseas writes: “Washington and Lee is one
of the few institutions that holds out for what many of us
think makes life worth living, so I’m all for it.” He is Trust
Officer for the U. S. Trust Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

Baldwin M. Osowitz, discharged with the rank of Captain,
lives at 1099 South Broad Street, Trenton, New Jersey. He
married an Omaha girl and at the time his letter was written
in May, 1946, was negotiating for a Chevrolet franchise with
General Motors.

Herman Littman, discharged from the Army after four
and a half years, with the title of Major, is teaching and
coaching in the Roosevelt High School, Washington, D. C.
He is married and has a 3% year-old daughter.

Ed McCarthy, now discharged from the Navy, is travel-
ing the southwest as a manufacturers’ agent calling on mill
supply and hardware jobbers. His territory is eastern Vir-
ginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida
and he is working for McCarthy & Company, Mill and In-
dustrial Supplies, Address: 1312 Poinsettia Ave., Orlando,
Florida.

Ralph Grant is manager of Iveys, a large department store
in Asheville, North Carolina, and is doing a fine job. He is
also president of Asheville Merchants Association and a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Rotary Club. He is mar-
ried and has a son, Peery, now seven years old.

Jack Myrose, Navy Chaplain, returned from the Pacific
the latter part of 1945, and has been with Naval Auxiliary
Air Station, Cabaniss Field, Corpus Christi, Texas.

George L. Minter was discharged from the Navy on Jan-
uary 1, 1946, with the rank of Commander. He is now with
the Minter Dry Goods Company, Abilene, Texas.

Herb Lunia, III, now out of the Navy, is back with Luria
srothers & Company, Incorporated, at 2110 Railway Ex-
change Building, St. Louis, Missouri.

Lieutenant-Colonel Ben M. Ayars, still serving in the
Judge Advocate General’s Department of the Army, has re-
cently been assigned as Post Judge Advocate of Fort Meade,
Maryland.

Ethan Allen is president of the New York chapter of
Washington and Lee alumni. He is practicing law with the
hrm of Wilkie, Owen, Otis & Gallagher at 15 Broad Street,
New York, New York.

[ 28 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

George Junkin has been transferred from the War Food
Administration to Federal Crop Insurance in the U.S. Agri-
cultural Department. Address: 5638 19th Street, North,
Arlington, Virginia.

1932

Charles Francis Richardson is working as an adjuster for
a claims service in Waco, Texas. He is now discharged from
the Navy having served aboard a minesweeper for two years.
Address: 3114 Parrott, Waco, Texas.

Paul A. Holstein was released from the Navy in December
1945 and resumed his law practice in Lexington, Virginia.
Upon his return home he was elected president of the Rock-
bridge County Bar Association.

Major Charles A. Wood, Jr., is State Procurement Officer,
Selective Service, stationed at Charleston,
West Virginia. He has a wife and two
daughters.

Jack J. Stark, M.D., was discharged
from service in September, 1945, with the
rank of Major in the Medical Corps, and
since then has returned to his old home in
Belpre, Ohio, and reestablished himself in
the practice of surgery. He has two little
daughters aged five and two.

David F. Crossen is a member of the
firm of Biggs, Curtis and Crossen, Spite
521, Security Building, St. Louis 2, Mis-
souri, following his discharge from a Troop
Carrier Command of the Army Air Forces.

C. Edmonds Allen is Manager of Spec-
ial Service and Radio Shows Division of
the United Press, 220 East 42nd Street, New York, New York.
He is married and has two children, Claxton Edmonds, III,
and Alice, aged two and three respectively. He was a recent
visitor to the campus in connection with a meeting of the
alumni committee on University Affairs, of which he is
chairman.

Woodson B. Gillock has been transferred to the position
of Supervisor in the Works Technical Department of the
DuPont Company at Waynesboro, Virginia; and is serving as
temporary editor of the eight page bi-weekly plant newspaper,
Recreation News. Address: P. O. Box 381, Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia.

R. Leighton McKinney is now back in Denison, Texas, and
in the insurance business after two years with the U. S.
Maritime Service. Address 301% West Woodward Street,
Denison, Texas.

Dr. Randolph T. Shields, Jr., is Assistant Professor of
Surgery at the University of Utah. He represented Washing-
ton and Lee at the inauguration of President Olpin of that
institution on October 16.

Everett N. (Gus) Cross is now out of the Navy and back
in his old job as a recreation director for the District of Co-
lumbia Department of Recreation and says he is operating a
swell set-up with new field house, tennis courts, etc. He is
struggling with the problem of building a new home, which
his builder has promised to complete in seven or eight months.
Gus will be remembered as an outstanding second baseman
on the baseball teams of the early thirties. Address: 3608
Veazey Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

 

(<= = : ft
Se! =

1933

Wallace B. Sheffield is now back in Cuthbert, Georgia, do-
ing some farming, which he says is a very interesting occu-
pation.

T. Deale Blanchard, Secretary-Treasurer of Blanchard &
Turner, Incorporated, 3410 High Street, Portsmouth, Virginia,
has recently been elected President of the Portsmouth Junior
Chamber of Commerce and a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Portsmouth Rotary Club, for the year ending
June 30, 1947, as well as a member of the board of directors
of the Virginia Retail Coal Merchants Association, the latter
for the third time.

Carl B. (Happy) Vickers is Prosecuting Attorney of Fay-
ette County, Fayetteville, West Virginia. His assistant is
Howard Carson, 731, and he says they are so busy that they
rarely get a chance to speak to each other.
Happy was a recent visitor to the campus
and says he never saw it looking more
beautiful.

Dr. Robert R. Smith was discharged
from the U.S. Medical Corps and is now
practicing medicine in Langhorne, Penn-
sylvania. He is on the staff of the Abington
Memorial Hospital and that, along with
being School Physician for George School,
a private boarding school nearby, keeps him
busy. He is married and has two children,
a boy and a girl. Address: 123 West Maple
~- Street, Langhorne, Pennsylvania.

Sam Bell Steves is Vice-President and
General Manager of Ed Steves & Son Lum-
a ber Company; Director Jefferson State
Bank, member Kiwanis Club, San Antonio
Country Club, San Antonio Club, Texas Cavaliers, Order of
Alamo, and the San Antonio German Club. He is married
and has four girls, ages, 12, 9, 5, and 1. Home: 528 Terrell
Road, San Antonio, Texas.

Richard T. Edwards, A.B.’33, LL.B.’35, who was anaval
officer serving aboard the USS Saratoga in the Pacific, has
been elected Mayor of the city of Roanoke, Virginia. Shortly
after beginning the practice of law in Roanoke, he was elected
Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney. Then military duties in-
terrupted his career. When he returned to Roanoke he was
elected to its City Council last June at the head of the ticket.
His selection by the Council as chairman and ex-officio Mayor
followed.

 

—

Claude LaVarre, Singer Sewing Machine Company, Apar-
tado 194 Santiago de Cuba, says that with two children now
around the house there is not much peace and quiet until 7:30
when they are both asleep and he and his wife can call to
their $20.00 a month servant (who’s on duty 24 hours a day)
to bring them a couple of highballs.

Frank E. Calhoun moved to Jacksonville, Florida, about a
year ago, has bought a home and settled down. He was in
military work all through the war and now is in charge of a
group making studies and investigations for possible river
and harbor improvements. He married Mary Elizabeth Deaver
of Lexington and they have two sons, seven and a half, and
five years old. His hobby is making antique furniture repro-
ductions, for which he has quite a few wood-working power
driven tools.

Wallace Werble, now out of the Army, has returned to his

[ 29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

pre-war job as Editor of F. D. C. Reports, a specialized trade
publication for the drug and cosmetic industries, and also acts
as Washington correspondent for some trade papers in these
fields. Address: National Press Building, Washington, D. C.

Homer G. Ray returned to the United States after Army
service in September 1945, and to civilian life in October. He
is now back with the Georgia Peanut Company, Moultrie,
Georgia.

1934

Harvey Pride ended his Army career in April and is now
in the Automobile business under the firm name of Pride
Motor Company at 311 Second Avenue, Decatur, Alabama. He
was married to Rachel Walker last February in Greenville,
South Carolina.

Tommy Anderson was released from the Navy last No-
vember and is now back with the law firm of Andrews, Kurth,
Campbell and Bradley, 2228 Gulf Building, Houston, Texas.

Captain Samuel L. Clark of Charleston, West Virginia, is
now studying a course in logistics at the Army Air Forces
Institute of Technology at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, Head-
quarters of Air Material Command. During the war he
served 25 months in England with the 388th Bomb Group.
Just before entering the AAF Institute of Technology, Cap-
tain Clark was in recruiting work at Wilmington, Ohio. Ad-
dress: 406 Ruffner Avenue, Charleston, West Virginia.

Layne H. Ford returned to the States in 1945 from Ger-
many, after three year’s service in the Army, eighteen months
of that time overseas, in North Africa, Italy, France, and
Germany. He is working for the Unemployment Compensa-
tion Board of Review, and doing private practice in his spare
time. Address: P. O. Box 534, Grafton, West Virginia.

Bob Buffington is with the U. S. Engineer office, Tulsa,
Oklahoma, where he is Chief of the Hydrology and Reservoir
Operation Section, with forty-four employees under him. He
is married and has a son, Robert Wilson, born February 23,
1946. As to activities, his chief diversion is counselor for
a 2l-year-old group of young people at the First Baptist
Church. He and his wife have been in charge of this group
since they were seventeen, and he says it is a great pleasure
to watch them growing up.

Sam Engelhardt, Jr., produced on his farm the first bale of
cotton sold this season at the Alabama Warehouse auction on
August 13, receiving $280.50, or 51 cents a pound. The previ-
ous top for cotton this year was 40 cents a pound.

1935

Meredith Graham is Executive Vice-President of the Na-
tional City Bank of Rome, Georgia, and also Vice-President
of Citizens Federal Savings & Loan Association. He has two
sons, Johnny, 5, and Ricky, 3. He wonders why he and his
class agent, Marshall Nuckols, studied law, but is glad they
did.

D. S. MacDonald, Jr., assumed the responsibilities and
duties of a large law firm in Durant, Oklahoma, on the death
of his father and uncle, four days apart, in 1939. Since that
time he has been a very busy man.

Early Coleman (Jake) Clements is a member of the law
firm of Clements & Clements, Rolling Fork, Mississippi. Since
the good days of 1932-1935, he has become the proud father
ot a couple of lads, 9 and 4 respectively, who should develop

into reasonably good linesmen or backs in future days. They
have a home surrounded with three or four acres of pecans
and untold quantities of grass to mow. From 1937 to 1945
he was Superintendent of the Methodist Sunday School,
teaches a Bible Class of 80 men, and is otherwise engaged
in church and civic enterprises. For some reason he seems to
feel that his class agent may be surprised at these activities.

Frederick deR. Strong was discharged from the Navy last
December, after four years of active duty. He is now Assis-
tant to the Comptroller of Raytheon Manufacturing Company.
The housing shortage isn’t bothering him because he bought
a home in Cambridge some two years ago. He is married
and has a young son.

James Franklin served with the Medical Corps for two
years, fifteen months of which was spent in England, Reims,
Paris and Belgium with an Army General Hospital. He was
discharged in February 1945, on arriving in this country from
LeHarve, had a vacation in Florida with his wife, and is now
back in his New York Office. Address: Provident Mutual
Life Insurance Company, 111 John Street, New York, New
York.

Ralph Bumgardner, Jr., released from active duty as Colo-
nel, J. A.G. D., Army of the United States, has reopened his
law offices in the May Building, Staunton, Virginia.

1936

Hugh J. Bonino is in the chemical business manufacturing
chemicals for textile mills. His firm is the Atlantic Chemical
Company, Centredale, Rhode Island. He and his wife were in
Lexington for Finals.

James M. White is in the cotton business in Huntsville,
Alabama. He says he is having a grand time at it but isn’t
certain whether he has the trade or the trade has him.

Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr., released from the Navy as a
Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, has opened an office for the
general practice of law, Investment Building, Washington,
D. C. Associated with him are W. Cameron Burton, George
C. Vournas, Thomas B. Heffelfinger and Ward B. McCarthy.

Andrew R. (Rudy) Lofstrand, Jr., Secretary-Treasurer
and General Manager of the Lofstrand Company, Silver
Springs, Maryland, and owner of an up-to-date farm near
Rockville, Maryland, was recently elected a member of the
Maryland General Assembly in Montgomery County’s all-
republican delegation, where his talent for ironing out en-
gineering “bugs” will be useful. Although he is only 33, Mr.
Lofstrand already holds more than a score of patents on in-
tricate machinery ranging from sterilization equipment to
aeronautical training devices.

1937

Frank Williams, after nearly three years in the Navy, is
back at the University of Tennessee teaching Economics. Ad-
dress: 4300 Lyons View Park, Knoxville, Tennessee.

George F. Gilleland is in charge of the newly opened office
of Loftin, Anderson, Scott, McCarthy & Preston, at 927 41st
Street, Miami Beach, Florida. In this firm there are two
partners and three associates who are graduates of Wash-
ington and Lee. The partners are Senator Scott M. Loftin, ’99,
Paul R. Scott, ’16, and Alfred L. McCarthy, ’23 and the other
associate is George T. Clark, ’25. Judge Paul R. Barnes, ’17,

[ 30 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

has just been elected as Justice of the Supreme Court of
Florida.

Arnold Matthews, since receiving his discharge from the
Navy, has been with the Division of Research and Statistics,
Treasury Department, Washington, D. C. Address: 3801 Cal-
vert Street, N. W., Washington 7, D. C.

Alfred H. Wishnew, after three years in the Air Corps
Weather Service, is now with J. Hirschson Metal Works, 224
Centre Street, New York 13, New York. He is married and
has a small daughter, Karen. Home: 1935 East 4th Street,
Brooklyn, New York.

William C. Dwiggins has been with Annin and Company,
Flag Makers, Fifth Avenue and 16th Street, New York, since
graduation, except for the war years when he was with the
U.S. Marine Corps. His duty with that body was mostly
spent overseas in such charming places as =A
Samoa, New Caledonia, Guadalcanal, Eniwe- Z
tok, Tinian, and Okinawa.

Walter G. (Tex) Lehr, Jr., got out of the
Army in January 1946, and he and his brother
are now in the Real Estate and Mortgage
Loan Business, 2119 Alamo National Build-
ing, San Antonio, Texas.

Gordon Rawls was released from the Army
in November 1945, with the grade of Captain.
He has opened up a new business, Portsmouth
Frozen Foods, Incorporated, of which he is
President and Manager, at 2332 King Street,
Portsmouth, Virginia. He was married in No-
vember 1942 and they have a son, Charles
Wilson, 20 months old.

Parke Rouse, Jr., is now back with the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, working for Mr. ;
Virginius Dabney, the editor, as editorial writer. He says:
“We have quite a W. and L. coterie here, Ernie Barrett, ’37,
is on the advertising staff, and Cowl Rider, ’37, is on the
copy desk of the News Leader, the afternoon paper published
by this same corporation. Other W. and L. men around are
Charles Hamilton, Al Darby and Earle Brown, News Leader,
and Matt Griffith, Times-Dispatch.”

Howell W. Roberts, Jr., is no longer a Captain, having
returned to inactive status in April, although he still retains a
reserve commission in AAF. He is living at his home, 102
Fourth Street, Garden City, New York, and working in the
Research Department of Eastern Air Lines.

W. C. Wilbur, Jr., arrived in this country on May 16,
after 21 months in Europe, the last three months in Copen-
hagen, Denmark. He was married on June 14, in Evanston,
Illinois, to Martha Hutchinson. In September he was re-
suming his teaching job at Muhlenberg College, Allentown,
Pennsylvania.

Ken Dustin, after entering Naval Aviation in 1939, was
injured while instructing a cadet and was placed on the Navy’s
retired list as a Lieutenant in May 1943. He continued on a
limited duty status until last January, at which time he was
placed on inactive duty. Since that time he has been affiliated
with Arnold, Hoffman and Company, Incorporated, Provi-
dence, Rhode Island. He was married to Miss Mary Lee of
St. Louis, Missouri, in 1941, and they have a daughter Deborah
Lee, born December 30, 1945. Address: 2 Edgehill Road,
Hoxie, Rhode Island.

 

Cowl Rider left the newspaper business last fall to be-
come assistant manager of the Richmond Civic Musical As-
sociation, which presents the Philadelphia Orchestra, Heifitz
and similar attractions during the winter, and after an in-
teresting but hectic season has returned to “the Fouth Es-
tate, a wiser and a chastened man, working on the copy desk
of the News Leader, Richmond, Virginia.”

Duane Berry is back again with Armstrong Cork Com-
pany, attached to the Glass and Closure Division’s Atlanta
branch. This is his tenth year with them, including his time
in the service. He was back at Washington and Lee in the
School for Personnel Services, and says that the School was
in every respect the best school operated by the Army. His
wife accompanied him to Lexington.

Dr. A. Erskine Sproul graduated at the University of Vir-
ginia Medical School in 1941, interned for a year at Union
Memorial Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland,
then had three years in the army as Flight
Surgeon and had eighteen months overseas in
Italy. He is now back at Union Hospital as
Resident Obstetrician. He will practice in
his home-town, Staunton, Virginia. He was
married to Ruth Peters, of Staunton, in May
1943, and they have a son A. E., Jr. Address:
3201 Guilford Avenue, Baltimore 18, Maryland.

1938

William H. Daniel is Co-Manager with his
brother of their father’s property in Tulsa and
elsewhere, with a real estate business of his
own. Address: 708 Daniel Building, Tulsa,
Oklahoma.

| Sam McChesney was released from the
“ Navy as a Lieutenant Commander in De-

cember 1945, his last duty being Supply Of-
ficer of U.S.S. Birmingham. Just a little over a year ago
they were hit by a suicide plane at Okinawa. He is now space
salesman for The American Weekly. 1454 Hanna Building,
Cleveland, Ohio. He is married and has one son, Samuel Mc-
Chesney, III, age 9% months. Home: 3384 Mayfield Road,
Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

Calvert Thomas writes that he is leaving the Government
(Chief Counsel’s Office, Bureau of Internal Revenue) and
Washington to go with General Motors Corporation as Tax
Counsel on September 1, 1946, and will be stationed in Detroit.

Paul Whipp is now out of the service and expects to go to
the University of Pennsylvania School for Social Work this
fall. Address: 178 Prince George Street, Annapolis, Mary-
land.

Jack Neill was separated from the Navy last November
as a First Lieutenant. He is now back with Henry Holt and
Company, Publishers, in New York, and lives at 399 Old
Sleepy Hollow Road, Pleasantville, New York. He says that
the Headless Horseman threw a curve at Ichabod Crane
right on the spot where they plunked down his bungalow,
according to his landlord.

J. Hiram Smith, after four years in the Army, was re-
leased last March, and spent his terminal leave in Lexington.
He is working for the U.S. Geological Survey in Montana,
where he will probably be for the remainder of the summer.
Her permanent home is in Lexington, Virginia.

Harry Philpott, after three years in the Navy as a Chap-
lain, will return to Yale to write his dissertation this winter.

[ 31 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

As he has not gotten a place to live, we are still using his
forwarding address, 209 West Second Avenue, Lexington,
North Carolina.

Captain Tom Cottingham finished a 45 day leave in June
and is now stationed at El Paso, Texas, with a signal bat-
talion.

Gerald M. Lively was released from the Navy in October
1945, and is with the law firm of Spencer and Britt, 519 Com-
merce Building, Kansas City 6, Missouri. He is married and
the proud father of a baby girl, age nine months, named
Karen Susanne.

Arthur Alexander was discharged from the Army in No-
vember 1946, after four year’s service, half of that time in the
U.S., with the Army’s Yank Magazine, the remainder touring
Europe, for the same sheet. Home: 29 West North Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Major Herbert C. Clendening is now back at West Point,
teaching electrical engineering, where he graduated in 1941.

Lieutenant (j.g.) Compton Broders, now with the Navy
Medical Corps, and his wife, “Peggy,” are comfortably set-
tled in a Quonset hut in California. Compton is with the
U.S. Naval Hospital, Oakland, California. He hopes to be out
of the Navy in the fall and to resume his fellowship in in-
ternal medicine at the Mayo Clinic, which he left to join the
service.

1939

Jack Ganong was discharged from the Navy last Novem-
ber and is now back in the law school at Washington and
Lee. He left the service as Assistant Professor of Naval
Science and Tactics at the NROTC Unit at Penn State Col-
lege. Jack will edit the 1947 Calyx.

Paul Edward Lavietes was awarded the bronze star for
meritorious service while he was a Lieutenant in the Navy
and in command of a PC boat in the far Pacific. The citation
reads in part: For meritorious achievement as Commanding
Officer of Control Ship, U. S. S. PC-1081, in action against
enemy Japanese forces in Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands
and Okinawa Shima in the Ryukyu Islands, from January
22, to April 4, steadfastly maintaining his ship as a control
vessel despite dangerous navigational conditions and con-
tinuous gunfire from hostile shore emplacements... Working
tirelessly, he participated actively in the rescue of the per-
sonnel from landing craft which had run out of fuel and
drifted to sea and, persisting on his daring mission, skillfully
escorted friendly LST’s through enemy patrolled waters to
control beaches on Okinawa in the face of continual at-
tacks from enemy suicide planes. Home: Boone, North
Carolina.

Randolph D. Rouse, discharged from the Navy as a Lieu-
tenant Commander, has opened offices as Randolph D. Rouse,
Business Representative and Consultant, 2032 Belmont Road,
N. W., Washington 9, D. C.

James A. Saltsman, discharged from the Army Air Force
with the rank of Captain, was enjoying a vacation with his
wife in Southwest Harbor, Maine, before getting back in
business. Address: 3107 34th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Francis Pendleton Gaines, Jr., son of Dr. F. P. Gaines,
president of Washington and Lee University, has been
awarded the Society of Cincinnati Medal in Virginia for the
best-written study of American history between the years
1750 and 1800, according to an announcement from the uni-
versity on June 12.

Henry Ruffin Horne, discharged from the Army, is study-
ing pharmacy at the University of North Carolina and ex-
pects to get his degree in December 1946, and join the firm
of H. R. Horne and Sons, Pharmacists, Fayetteville, North
Carolina.

Joseph C. Murphy spent twenty months overseas in the
E TO—with a total of four years in the service. He left the
Army as a Captain and returned to the practice of law in
January 1946, with the firm of Bowers and Rinehart, Second
National Bank Building, Somerville, New Jersey. He is
married and has a daughter 2 years old.

1940

Homer Derrell Dickens attended the Harvard School of
Business after graduation from Washington and Lee, later
was in the Navy Quartermaster Corps, and is now dis-
charged. His home is in DeWitt, Arkansas.

Alac Thomson, after two and a half years in the Army is
now at work in the cost accounting office of DuPont and
Company, Waynesboro, Virginia. He is married and has two
children, a boy, three, and a girl, one year old. They live in
Greenville, Virginia, which is seventeen miles from his work
in Waynesboro.

John Winn Watson, Jr., is now with the H. J. Kaiser
Company, Los Angeles, California. Desperate on account of
the housing situation, he got in touch with Kay Kyser, who
furnished the music for the Fancy Dress Ball of which Jack
was president, and was invited to occupy Kay’s apartment
until he could get a permanent location. Address: 955 Venango
Street, Los Angeles, California.

Gilbert Gardner, Class Agent for 1940-A, has sold out his
trade correspondence business and has joined Fairchild Pub-
lications as city editor in Chicago for Retailing Home Fur-
nishings. His home is at 599 Surf Street, Apartment 8-J,
Chicago 14, Illinois.

1941

Louie A. Paterno is practicing law in Charleston, West
Virginia, with offices in the Security Building.

Charlie Hobson, since his discharge from the Navy last
February, has been attending law school at the University
of Kentucky, and practicing law part time with Pritchard
and Ardery, with offices in Frankfort and Lexington, Ken-
tucky. Home: 219 Shelby Street, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Henry T. Crocker has been discharged after four years in
the Navy. He returned from Manila late in September 1945,
and resumed his old job with the Aegis, a county weekly in
Bel Air, Maryland.

Campbell Taggert, Jr., was in the Signal Corps for four
years and was discharged as a Second Lieutenant. He is
working for the Cellulose Wadding Products, Incorporated,
his own business, and is selling, when he can get it S'WIPE’S
cleansing tissue. He has a son, Donald C. Taggart, III, now
three and a half years old. Address: 1139 East Jersey Street,
Elizabeth 4, New Jersey.

William Buckner Morgan, now discharged from the Navy,
traveled the Pacific, Carribean, Gulf of Mexico, North At-
lantic, back to the Pacific again, this time into Tokyo. He is
entitled to wear the Asiatic-Pacific ribbon with two battle
stars; the American-French ribbon, American theatre of
Operations ribbon, and has been recommended for the Bronze

[ 32 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Star. His ship and all personnel were recommended for the
Navy Unit Citation. Since the first of February he has been as-
sociated with the firm of B. F. Ward and Company, Invest-
ment Securities, Sterick Building, Memphis, Tenn.

John D. Durham, discharged from the Army with the rank
of Captain, plans to enter Pratt Institute for a special gradu-
ate refresher course as a commercial artist. Address: 2 Roselle
Avenue, Pleasantville, New York.

Alvin T. Fleishman was discharged from the Navy as a
Lieutenant, Senior Grade, Supply Corps, after three years
and a half service, sixteen months of which was spent in the
Pacific. He was married on March 18, 1945 to a WAVE,
Florence Gesetz, whom he met on his return from overseas.
Returned to his home field,
Anderson, South Carolina,
and is working with his
father in Fleishman Company,
‘a fair-sized small town de-
partment store.” He and his
wife were in Lexington for
Homecoming.

Robert E. Steele, III was
separated from the Navy in
January and is connected with
the Roanoke World-News. He
was married on March 31,
1946, to Mary Elizabeth Benn,
of Boston. They are living in
Salem, Virginia, and should
be able to make most of the
Washington and Lee functions
in future.

A. T. (Junie) Bishop, Jr.,
is now employed with the In-
diana Tractor Sales Corpora-
tion as Zone Manager of South
Eastern Indiana. His home is
at 426 North East Street,
Greensburg, Indiana.

 

Tom Brockenbrough, after the war ended, enrolled in
civil engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy and now holds a Master of Science degree from that in-
stitution. He is employed by the Douglas Aircraft Company
in Santa Monica, California. Address: 560 Euclid Street,
Santa Monica, California.

1942

Lieutenant William A. Phillips, for the last year, has been
medical supply officer aboard a victory ship going to various
ports in Europe.

Lee D. Parker is still connected with the Post Engineers
Office at Fort Monroe, Virginia as Construction Engineer.
He was married February 6, 1946, to the former Miss Maver
Elizabeth Clarke. He and his wife were visitors to the campus
in August. Address: 250 Regent Street, Apartment 4, Hamp-
ton, Virginia.

John Philip Robinson, after three years in England with
the Army Air Force, is with the General American Aero-
coach Company, Chicago. He is married and has a daughter,
Christine, 44% years old. Home: 1400 Lake Shore Drive, Chi-

cago, Illinois.

Dr. Henry M. Yonge, Lieutenant, U.S. Medical Corps,
has just completed his internship at the Medical College of

 

Virginia, and will go on active duty with the Army Medical
Corps for about two years, after which he expects to go to
some hospital for further training.

R. O. Wilbur was married on September 1, 1945, to Doro-
thy Scriber of Bound Brook, New Jersey. He is employed at
the Calco Chemical Division of the American Cyanamid
Company in Bound Brook as a chemist. Address: Route 1,
Box 8, River Road, Bound Brook, New Jersey.

Alex Hitz and his family have recently changed their ad-
dress to 1760 Peachtree Street, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia.

Lieutenant Gibson M. Wolfe, Army Air Corps, is run-
ning the transmitter Detachment for HQ-13 AF, based at
Fort McKinley, Manila, where he expects to be until June
1947. His wife and baby are
at Panama, Canal Zone, where
Lieutenant Wolfe’s father is
stationed.

1943

Corneal B. Myers is now
attending the University of
Florida Law School. His ad-
dress for the next year will
be: 22-G Flavet Village, Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida.

Lieutenant Don Richard-
son gives his new address as
5291 Farmbrook, Detroit 24,
Michigan. He was married to
Patricia Walker of San Fran-
cisco on November 7, 1945.

Richard John Bromley is
now on the staff of the
Nassau Daily Review-Star,
Rockville Center, New York.
He was discharged from the
Army in the early spring.

Warren Stuart was married to Marge Busby of Cali-
fornia—American Red Cross Worker of 7th Army H. Q., in
Heidelberg, Germany on August 21, 1945. They spent their
honeymoon on the Riviera and Cannes and also in Paris.
Address: 4634 Lakewood Boulevard, Long Beach, California.

1944

Lieutenant Alvin D. Aisenberg, still in the Navy, has re-
cently completed a turn of sea duty aboard the A. P. 158 USS
General C. G. Morton, which made a beautiful trip around the
world. He is now stationed at the Naval Air Station, Ana-
costa, D.C., and his home address is 3619 Rosedale Road,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Richard Rockwell is at home after two years L. S. T. duty
in the Pacific. Home: 201 Fern Street, West Hartford, Con-
necticut.

Richard S. Watson, recently associated with the geological
department of the State of Missouri, will enter the Prince-
ton Theological Seminary in September to prepare for the
ministry.

1946

George C. Morris is a Junior at the Medical School of the
University of Pennsylvania, but prefers that his address be
kept at his home: 2295 McFaddin Street, Beaumont, Texas.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pictures

FOR HOME or OFFICE
¢

®2 After considerable delay, we are delighted to an-
nounce that pictures in full color showing the lawn and
buildings of front campus are now available and may be
ordered from the alumni office in either of two sizes—
20 x 15 and 35 x 25 inches... Suitable for home or
office, these pictures are believed to comprise the most
satisfactory art work ever created to capture the familiar
loveliness of the Washington and Lee campus. . . Price:

Large size $2.50...small size $1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

