eh .
ery

a) Salis

. >

>
Ye

eA TAS <y"*

Alumni Magazine >

Washington and Lee University

Se Te 4

Ty

ie 9 ;

' os pot Pas Sg
Say ae TOR
“ee

ai tert i ") |
ts Pat ge fee, Os "

F
2
<,
st

 

a +,

fa -_ Fg —
ee a ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

TPE,

Washington and Lee

University
Alumni Fund

J

YOUR Class Agent 1s
doing an unselfish and loyal job for the
University. He will do his part. Do your
part by replying to his letter.

The Alumni Fund is the most eftec-
tive means through which you may evt-

dence your interest and appreciation of

what your Alma Mater has done for you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—Car! Knight, '26, Big Stone Gap,
Virginia

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Joe E. Birnie, '27, Bank of Georgia,
34 Peachtree

Baltimore—Latimer G. Young, °40, 2906 Guil-
ford Avenue

Birmingham—Ed Aull, Jr., '23, 1210 21st Place
South

Charleston, West Virginia—W. Goodridge Sale,
‘24, Kanawha Valley Building

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chieago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
noad, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, °38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte,—John L. Crist, "13, Box 1045

Cleveland—Ben F. Fiery, '13, 1956 Union Com-
merce Building

Covington, Virginia—Carl V. Harris, ‘28 P.O.
Box 667

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, ‘24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—Dr. Edward Lyons, ‘12, 320 East
Grand Boulevard

Florida, West Coast—C. T. Dawkins, ‘09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—Judge Paul D. Barns, ‘17, 4th
Floor, Court House, Miami, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Wathen Knebelkamp, ‘21, 701 Sun-
nyside Drive

Lynchburg—Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., '30, Krise
Building

 

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, °'37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Ethan Allen, ‘31, 15 Broad Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Walter E. Hoffman, ‘31, National
Bank of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Campbell C. Hutchinson,
Jr., '29, Commercial Building, Shreveport,
Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, ‘37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A,. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Stuart Sanders, ’31, Sanders Broth-
ers Paint Company

Roanoke—W. Courtney King, '21, 512 State &
City Bank Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C.. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—William C. Edwards, '32, 5142 West-
minster Place

Tri-State—Elliott Vawter, '09. First Hunting-

ton National Bank Building, Hunti

West Virginia : a
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr.. ’38

207 Washington Street, Cumberland. Md.

Washington, D.C.—Paul Brown. ‘41, Court
House Square, Arlington. Virginia

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook. °32

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office

at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press

of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXI MAY, 1946 No. 3

 

Editor.............. .. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PRCUHGOME:. |.) ities ... JOHN W. Drye, 1920
Vice-President ....... THos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Secretary............. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treasurer...... ae taal P. C. WuHItTLock, 1929

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

RospertT P. Hopson, 1914
Ki WittiAMs, 1915
Joun W. Drye, 1920
J. W. Mitner, 1915
P. C. Wurttock, 1929

THos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913

LEON W. Harris, 1915

OUR COVER:

Spring version of the typical 1946 campus, showing a few
of the eighty-five married veterans and their wives and chil-
dren now at Washington and Lee. The students from left to
right—Roger Campbell, Al Overton Charlie Bagley, Paul
Thomas and Willard Keland. In each instance their wives are
standing to their left. Peggy (Mattox) McKenna is the girl
holding her baby in her arms. Floyd was out of town with
the baseball team when the picture was made.

 

Rf
#9

“es
-
os
Le *

Peedcte

Petes
Ae

iF
op)
Pas

b
he
*

a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Spring Synopsis

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Help from the General Education Board:

This great foundation has promised to contribute .one
dollar for every four given to endowment purposes, in
the Bicentennial campaign, up to a maximum of
$1,500,000. The offer is valid through December 31,
1948. Recognition of this kind is, of course, encouraging
in itself but the material help represented will prove sig-
nificant and challenging. Every time an alumnus or friend
within the

 

gives four dollars, he is making available
additional resources of five dollars.

 

limits indicated
ok ok ok

A Great Day Coming:

Commencement 1946 should prove about the best in
history, in spite of the fact that our senior class will be
small. Indications now are that a large number of alum-
ni, particularly of the ‘veteran alumni,” will be with us.
The program will be good—with a commencement ser-
mon by our own eloquent Dr. W. T. Hanzsche. The re-
unions will be heart-warming; and the alumni will be
gratified to see their Alma Mater undamaged by the
strain of war years.

x * *
The Status of Enrollment:

We are now having more applications, or inquiries
about application, than at any time in our history. Most
of these are from the veterans, but the seniors of high
and prep schools are showing intense activity. By fall
we shall have full enrollment, and that group should be
one of the best qualified crowds we have had. American
institutions of higher learning, particularly those for men,
have the student surplus and the teacher shortage. Thus
swings the pendulum; through the war years we had
an abundance of teachers with few students—now we
have all the students we can serve and find ourselves
with a scarcity of instructors. That matter of academic
equilibrium—if there is any such thing—is still elusive.

x * “
The Immense Stimulation of the Class-Agent Fund:

I have no words with which I may adequately thank
the class agents, and the fellow alumni who cooperate in
the task of raising the alumni fund, but I do wish to in-
dicate these two phases of the service rendered by this
sum. It is by now a considerable factor of our oppor-
tunity; last year’s fund might be thought of as the in-
come on approximately $600,000 of endowment. This

fund, moreover, is a flexible one, reaching many needs
that the regular University income could not touch. The
average University budget is practically frozen; about
nineteen out of every twenty dollars are in the perman-
ent commitments

 

salaries that must be paid, coal that
must be bought, insurance that must be deposited, and
the like. The alumni fund makes possible

 

always with
the concurring judgment of your own Board—many new
improvements, such as our excellent new athletic field,
which we simply could not hope for otherwise.

x x “e
My Gratitude and My Respects:

In my alumni talks of the spring, I am trying to pay
deference to two groups of students. One is that little
body of men, at one time not more than 65, who made up
the war-time group of regular students. They were part-
ly 4-F boys and partly very young boys; they saw most
of their plant used by the army, and they found nearly
all regular extra-curricular activities suspended; but in
a noble spirit they carried on not merely their work but
also the finer traditions such as the dignity of student
government and the validity of the Honor System. The
other group to whom I bring tribute is the present crowd
of “veterans,” These boys have so far done academic
work of almost incredible excellence ; and what is equally
gratifying is the fact that they have not presumed once
upon their past experience or any rank of recognition
that may be a part of their record. They are good stu-
dents and they are gentlemen.

* * x
More Appreciation:

[ am at the moment grateful for many things, far
more than I can enumerate here in my limited space. But
! must tender my thanks to: Bob Patterson for his “Let-
ter to General Lee,” one of the loveliest editorials that
ever appeared in any student paper; Editor Young for
the picture on the cover of this issue, a “cute” picture
indeed but also an eloquent one that tells better than any
of my phrases the 1946 version of the “‘all-boys”’ college ;
to the officers and committees of the local alumni chap-
ters who have arranged the most successful series of
meetings that I have known; to my colleagues of the fac-
ulty for a grand birthday party given to me and several
guests who came to lead me gently down the steeps of
time.

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the Campus

a
a

-
“a
we . <
/ :
—— ae

g

: +
eine bs
- ‘2h
3 i oe
-_ e

.
Lard “ ,
ra =~ 3 Pkt
EP mA x kot
. #4

ee

 

Dr. Gaines and Guests at Reception in their honor

 

Returned to the campus, after leave of absence during the
war, are Dr. Reid White, University Physician; Foster E.
Mohrhardt, Librarian; Magruder Drake, Registrar; Dr. Ra-
mon T. Johnson, Charles P. Light, Charles McDowell and
Dr. T. A. Smedley, of the Law School; and A. R. Coleman,
M. O. Phillips, George Jackson, A. W. Moger, Dr. James H.
Starling, Dr. R. B. Ewing, Lewis K. Johnston, and Dr. W.
W. Pusey, of the Academic School. A new professor, Dr. E.
S. Gilreath, has been added to the chemistry department.

* * *

In celebration of the fifty-fourth birthday of President
Francis P. Gaines on April 21, Dr. and Mrs. Gaines had as
their guests for the week-end, President Oliver C. Carmichael
of the Carnegie Foundation, and Mrs. Carmichael; President
Raymond Paty of the University of Alabama, and Mrs. Paty;
President Goodrich C. White of Emory University, and Mrs.
White; President Theodore G. Jack of Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College, and Mrs. Jack; Dean Calvin Hoover of Duke
University, and Mrs. Hoover; President Rufus C. Harris of
Tulane University; President Umphrey Lee of Southern
Methodist University; and President J. Ross McCain of
Agnes Scott College.

On Saturday evening the university gave a reception in the
Student Union, honoring President and Mrs. Gaines.

* * *

Since the School for Personnel Services has vacated the
campus, the Law School is again housed in Tucker Hall; the
Student Union is open. The Christian Council of the Uni-
versity, in observance of the reopening of the building, held
an informal reception at the Union, on February 12, to which
all students, members of the faculty and administration and
their wives were invited. All of the rooms of the Library
are now open to students and the reserved books have been
moved back to the East Wing along with the periodicals.

“The Corner Store,” closed for the war, has been com-
pletely, and most attractively, redecorated, and is again the
favorite loafing place for students and their friends. It is

under the management of Jim Humphreys, *40, recently dis-
charged Captain in the Army Air Force, who is again a stu-
dent at W & L.

To provide quarters for veterans at Washington and Lee
the University is preparing a site for fifty housing units
which have been allocated to it by the Federal Public Hous-
ing Authority. The units are expected to be one and two-
bedroom houses, comfortable and within easy walking dis-
tance of the campus. The program will effect only the mar-
ried students of Washington and Lee and should consider-
ably relieve the complexities with which they have had to
cope during the present semester.

Practically all the fraternity houses will be open by the
beginning of the fall semester.

* * *

Dr. Allen W. Moger, secretary of the Washington and
Lee University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, has announced
the names of five students elected to membership in the or-
ganization. They are, W. B. Van Gelder, at present serving
in the Navy, received his degree last February, and was voted
to membership in recognition of work done here, home:
Washington, D.C.; Rex Criminale, Mobile, Alabama; John
Dempsher, Coaldale, Pennsylvania; David V. Guthrie, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana; John Holley, Unadilla, New York.

* * *

At a special assembly held in Lee Chapel on April 18,
Washington and Lee was presented with a very handsome
bronze plaque, by Colonel W. H. Quarterman on behalf of
the School for Personnel Services, in commemoration of
their sojourn on the campus.

Colonel Quarterman, in presenting the plaque, gave a
brief history of the School for Personnel Services, recalling
how from December 1942, to January, 1946, he saw over
22,000 men and women of the armed forces go through the
special training at Washington and Lee. The Army, he said,
was well aware of the service which the University had
rendered, but felt that there should be a perpetual witness of
this service to tell others of it in future years.

 

 

Colonel Quarterman presents SPS plaque

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The annual University Religious Conference was held on
April 9, 10, and 11, with daily services in Lee Chapel. The
Conference was led by Dr. Russell C. Stroup, minister of the
First Presbyterian Church, Lynchburg, Virginia, assisted
by Col. (Chaplain) Martin C. Poch, Office of the Chief of
Chaplains, Washington D.C., and Dr. J. Edwin Bethea, Lee
Memorial Church, Lexington, Virginia. The schedule of
Classes was shortened in order that students might attend.
The theme of all three of the talks made by Dr. Stroup at
the morning services was “A Day of Decision.”

Students and faculty were invited to meet the Confer-
ence leaders at a reception held at the Student Union on the
afternoon of Tuesday, April 9.

Monthly Vesper Services are held in Lee Chapel on Sun-
day afternoons.

* cK *

Reorganization of many post-war activities have taken
place; The Graham-Lee and Washington Literary Societies;
Interfraternity Council; Glee Club; Troubadours; Forensic
Union.

*” * *

The Mid-Winter Dance Set, the first formal dances at
Washington and Lee of notable size since 1943, was held
February 15-16. Over 200 couples were in attendance and
The Vagabonds, furnished the music.

The Spring Dance Set was held on the week-end of April
12-13, with music by Johnny Satterfield and his well-known
orchestra from the University of North Carolina. The dances
were well attended by girls from nearby colleges and were
successfully reminiscent of pre-war days.

ok * *

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, President of Washington
and Lee University, received this year’s Distinguished Ser-
vice Scroll from the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce,
in the highlight of the annual chamber membership banquet
held in Roanoke, Virginia, on April 11.

According to James S. Easley, chairman of the award
committee of the chamber, Dr. Gaines received the scroll in
appreciation of his “cumulative services to Virginia and the
nation” extending over a period of many years.

* * *

The unexpectedly large number of veterans who are tak-
ing advantage of the Government's provision for the carrying
out of their post-war education has accelerated beyond all
anticipation the return of the Washington and Lee campus
to its pre-war life and numbers. Added to the several hun-
dred men who came in at the beginning of the second semes-
ter in February were approximately 25 additional men at the
mid-semester break on 8 April. The enrollment of these men
brought the total number of students on the campus to 470.
Of this number approximately 350 were veterans. It is note-
worthy that the great majority of the veterans, other than
old Washington and Lee students returning, are in the fresh-
man year. This factor is significant in promising the continu-
ation of veteran attendance over the next three years, even
when one considers the cutting down of time required for
achieving a degree through summer attendance.

While the action of Congress in relation to the Selective
Service law will be the controlling factor from high school,
present indications are that the summer session attendance
should be between 500 and 600. There is every reason to look
for an enrollment in the fall of a number equal to the peak
pre-war enrollment of 950. The deluge of applications for ad-
mission would have rendered possible an increase in the size
of the student body that could multiply this number several

|

NI

 

Captain Herbert G. Dollahite, II, now in North Africa,
with the North African Division, Air Transport Command,
with the Duchess D’Aosta Vedova of Italy, who was his
guest recently at the celebrated VIP House, Villa Maas,
Casablanca, French Morocco, which he is managing. Villa
Maas is considered the top ranking property in the Air Trans-
port Command and the top rank of traffic have in this leased
property been entertained while in Casablanca. Captain Dolla-
hite, with a long experience in hotel management before en-
tering the service, has operated many of the best hotels taken
over by the government during the war. He is considered
among the foremost young hotelmen in America. He expects
to be released from the Air Corps in the late spring. Address:
University Club, 1135 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

 

times. While every effort will be made to carry out recog-
nized obligations to returning veterans, two factors seem to
operate against any great increase in the size of the stu-
dent body. One is the limitation of housing facilities that can-
not be expanded without material resources that are not
available to a private institution unable to secure state appro-
priations. The second factor is the view that seems to pre-
vail among faculty, students, and alumni that the distinctive
contribution that Washington and Lee can make as an edu-
cational institution is definitely inherent in the “small col-
lege” set-up. Increasing the enrollment by many hundreds—
were it possible with the physical resources existing—would
definitely change the pattern of the nature of the institution.

There is all reason to expect that every former student
in good standing at Washington and Lee will find his place
waiting for him whenever he wishes to enter. There will be
room for a limited number of students with strong records
entering directly from high school. Over half or more of the
student body will, however, for the next several years con-
tinue to be ex-service men on the campus for the first time.

One particular phase of the post-war life at Washington
and Lee deserving of mention is the presence of the married
veterans and their wives. Nearly one hundred are now in at-
tendance, and this number will be increased this summer as
largely as housing permits. The energy and enthusiasm of
this group in finding housekeeping accomodations in over-
crowded Lexington have been remarkable. They have man-
aged to find places to live where few knew that they existed.
The situation will be somewhat eased by the erection of
fifty pre-fabricated housing units to be erected by the Gov-
ernment in Davidson Park, with an additional fifty requested
and tentatively approved for a location near the town high
school.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Tom Sugrue, An Appreciation

By Fitzgerald Flournoy

When Tom Sugrue came to Lexington from Naugatuck,
Connecticut, in the fall of 1926, he already knew what he
wanted. He had tried banking and hated it. He had led a jazz
band. He had played semi-pro football. But he had been de-
termined, like another mighty Celt, Carlyle, to become “a
writer of books.” He was a little more mature than the av-
erage freshman, and I can see him now as he strode into our
sequestered community:
the slight, wiry figure,
the long chin, the bony
face, the deeply set eyes
that laughed and brood-
ed, the dome of a fore-
head, and a mop of au-
burn hair.

In three years he had
his A.B., magna cum
laude, Phi Beta Kappa,
at the same time, had
been the first editor of
the newly re-establish-
ed Southern Collegian,

had written a Trouba-
dour show and some
shows for Phi Delta
Phi, had managed a

boarding house, had ed-
ited, as a money-mak-
ing venture, some scan-
dal sheets that might
have ended his college
career if their author-
ship had been known in
the wrong places, and
had shown his_ Irish
mettle by managing a political campaign that will probably
go down in history as the Great Upset of the Twentieth
Century. He was the best-loved and best-hated man of his
year. He aroused passionate feelings, pro or con, wherever
he went. The only thing everybody agreed on was that you
could not be neutral about Sugrue.

The rebirth of the Southern Collegian was a saga in it-
self. For two years a group of boys had been meeting at my
house to read plays. In the fall of 1927 one of the group,
Billy Hill, proposed to me that the group should devote it-
self to the revival of the literary magazine of the students,
the Southern Collegian, which had died the death in World
War I and had never been reestablished. I put the proposal
before the group and was filled with admiration at their re-
action. Most of these students were poor, but every one of
them put up ten dollars to pay for the printing of the first
number of the magazine. They called it, at first, The Periwig,
for they had been reading Restoration plays and were fas-
cinated by the headgear of Sir Fopling Flutter and Lord
Foppington. Graham Morison, the leader of the group, was
elected Business Manager, and he insisted that Sugrue was
the only man for editor. How right he was! Morison got the
advertisements that made the magazine a financial success,
while Sugrue not only edited, but wrote the rag. Very few

 

Tom Sugrue, ’29, and Colonel Starling of the White House

contributions came in at first. So Sugrue wrote several num-
bers almost in toto. Verse and prose, fiction and essay, he
wrote everything, under a dozen aliases, and people began to
ask who were these brilliant students who were making the
new magazine so popular. Some years later, when he was
contributing as many as three articles and stories to one issue
of the American Magazine, one under his own name and two

under aliases, I knew
he had learned the
trick at Washington
and Lee.

For his fourth year,
Tom had planned an

easy life. He would do
nothing but get his
M.A. in English. But in
the autumn Gus Elias,
Editor of the Calyx and
his intimate friend, was
killed in an automobile
accident, and Tom took
over the Year Book
and finished it for his
friend, to whom it was
dedicated.

If today Tom Sugrue
is the author of Star-
ling of the White
House, non-fiction best
seller, and if he is in
New York as a member
of the staff of the Sat-
urday Review of Litera-
ture, he owes his fame
and success partly to
what Washington and Lee gave him, partly to what he
learned under Stanley Walker on the New York Herald-
Tribune, and partly to an experience like that of Moses, who
was banished to the wilderness for forty years that his soul
might grow.

After Tom had traveled all over Europe and through all
the forty-eight states for the American Magazine, he was
made Associate Editor of the American and it looked as if he
was destined to be the very slickest of the “slick-magazine”’
successes. Then “God smote him,” as the Old Testament
would put it. He was banished into pain and helplessness,
banished from New York and the company of writers, ban-
ished from the work that he had learned so well how to do,
from reporting, from slick articles, from the highly profit-
able career on which he had been launched. For most people,
it would have been the end. For him, it brought out every re-
source of his genius and of his fighting heart. He conquered
his condition. He conquered himself. He became “a writer
of books.” I saw him writing his novel, Such is the Kingdom.
The only part of his body that would move was his right arm,
and in his right hand be clutched the stub of a pencil, with
which he wrote his book on the same yellow foolscap on
which he had once handed in examinations. The book was a
critical success, but sold moderately. He will never write

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

more beautifully, but the book lacked unity and pace. He so
improved that he wrote his next book on the typewriter. It
was There is a River, the biography of the strangely gifted
Mr. Cayce, and a labor of love, for Hugh Lynn, the son of
Mr. Cayce, had nursed Tom with the tenderness of a wo-
man when he was at the depth of his misfortunes. The book
required deep reading and research and left Tom a scholar
and a philosopher. By the time Colonel Starling came to
Clearwater Beach to tell his story, Tom had developed a
prose style as lean and stripped as an athlete in training. It
flashed with the grace and brilliance of sword play. It makes
Starling of the White House as easy and shining as if it
had been written by Dryden.

Thomas Sugrue, as he enters his fourth decade, has come
out of the wilderness and has brought thence rare gifts. He
has become a learned man and a philosopher; he is deeply
religious and deeply tolerant; he has, in brief, achieved wis-
dom. Most delightful of all, his humor is richer and his comic
view of life is riper than ever before. I notice that he is be-
ing given books to review after critics in other journals have
badly missed the point. Tom has resources of understanding
that are closed to the merely clever writer; that are closed
to most modern men.

Washington and Lee, however, continues to influence him
palpably. An old teacher was glad to see, in Tom’s recent
review of a new work of comedy, that the old student had not
forgotten the theories of Meredith and Bergson that he and
I learned together in a course that I was rash enough in my
youth to entitle “The Comic Spirit in Literature.”” Rumor has
it that Tom is going to found a new magazine under the
auspices of the Saturday Review. Well, why not? He did it
at Washington and Lee and if they don’t watch out in New
York, he'll be writing the new magazine from cover to cover.

 

 

Col. Murphy, ‘14, Awarded Medal

Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy, °14, in October, 1945. was
awarded the Legion of Merit. According to the citation, Col-
onel Murphy planned and put into effect a method of utilizing
rice wine alcohol as a substitute for gasoline motor fuel, which
permitted a reduction of air lift of nearly 50,000 tons of
gasoline from India to China over the Hump route. In Au-
gust, 1945, 75 percent of all vehicles used by Chinese and

 

Colonel Harriss,’'23, Receives Award

Colonel Andrew H. Harriss, Jr., was awarded the Legion
of Merit medal for “being prominently instrumental in the
preparation and execution of the defense of the outer bastion
of the Panama Canal.” He commanded the Antilles depart-
ment General depot in Trinidad. Address: 609 Dock Street,
Wilmington, North Carolina.

 

American troops in China, were operating on this fuel.
He previously had received the Bronze Star medal for out-
standing services as liaison officer of the Central Purchasing
and Procurement Authority, China Theatre. He has been
with the fighting forces in Africa, India and China; in North
Africa, then to India where he was assigned to the staff of
General Stilwell, later to the staff of the Chinese army in
India. He went to Chungking in August, 1944, where he was
made chief of procurement for United States headquarters
in China. Colonel Murphy’s son, Lieutenant J. B., Jr., class
1946, Washington and Lee who had recently arrived in
China, witnessed the presentation. Colonel Murphy’s home
is in Staunton, Virginia.

Lewis F. Powell, '29, Is Very Active

Lewis F. Powell, B.S. ’29, LL.B. ’31 from W&L and
LL.M., Harvard, went on active duty with the Army Air
Forces in the spring of 1942; after attending two service
schools, was assigned as Squadron Intelligence Officer with
a B-26 Bombardment Group and was sent to England in
September, 1942; participated in the invasion of North Africa
on November 8, 1942, and served through the winter of
1942-1943 as a Squadron Intelligence Officer; in the spring
of 1943 was transferred to General Spaatz’ headquarters (12th
Air Force), and thereafter, except for a brief period with
Headquarters, Army Air Forces in Washington, spent the
remainder of the war as a member of General Spaatz’ Staff,
serving in Algeria, Tunisia, Italy, England, France and Ger-
many; during the latter stages of the war was Chief of the
Operational Intelligence Division of the Directorate of In-
telligence for Headquarters, United States Strategic Air
Forces in Europe; was promoted at various times, becoming

[9]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

full Colonel in the summer of 1945; returned to America
November 1, 1945, after having served for several months as
American Air Intelligence Representative at British Air Min-
istry; went off active duty on February 12, 1946; was awarded
the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star and Croix de Guerre with
Palm. He is now back in the practice of law as a member
of the firm of Hutton, Williams, Anderson, Gay & Moore,
Richmond, Virginia.

He is assistant division counsel for the State of Virginia
for the Southern Railway Company, a member of the Ameri-
can Bar Association, Virginia Bar Association, vice president
of the Richmond City Bar Association, past national presi-
dent of the Junior Bar Association of America, and past
member of the House of Delegates of the American Bar As-
sociation, He has recently been elected to the board of direc-
tors of E. R. Squibb & Sons.

Lt. Col. James H. Penick,'19, Serves

James H. Penick, ’19, President of the W. B. Worthen
Company, Bankers, of Little Rock, Arkansas, entered officers’
training camp for World War I, after two years at Washing-
ton and Lee. He was in Europe much of the time, serving
through the Armistice. Recently he received his discharge
from World War II, with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He
was more or less drafted for this service as a contribution to
the cause from the bankers of the State of Arkansas.

 

 

 

Lewis F. Powell, ’29

 

*.

Lieutenant Colonel James H. Penick, 19

 

 

Again entering the service in May, 1943, he attended the
Army’s School of Military Government at Charlottesville,
Virginia, until August, when he was ordered to North Africa.
There, he was stationed at Tizi Ouzi, and attached to the
Allied Commission. The following spring he was sent to
Naples, remaining there for some months. From Naples he
went to Rome, where he was made Chief of the Allied Finan-
cial Agency, which position he held until he was released
from service in September, 1945. He was attached to the
2675th Regiment, and held the rank of Lieutenant Colonel at
the time of his release.

Col. Penick’s duties were varied. He had charge of all
financial affairs in the Italian area, working in cooperation
with the financial houses and government of Italy. He had
charge of the supplying of currency for the Army in Italy,
and it was a part of his work to estimate the money which
would be needed to meet the ever-changing requirements for
funds in that area.

He was instrumental in the recovery of twenty-three tons
of gold which the Germans had stolen from the Italians and
had buried near the Brenner Pass. For his part in the re-
covery of this gold and the coin collection of the Italian royal
family, he was decorated with the Order of the Crown of
Italy, the highest award the Italian Government can give to
a citizen of another country. He was given the Legion of
Merit for his services as Chief of the Allied Financial Agency.

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John W. Drye, LL.B. ’20, president of the Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., was recently re-elected to the board
of directors of the Virginian Railway company. Mr. Drye is
a member of the law firm of Rathbone, Perry & Drye, 70
Broadway, New York.

William A. Keleher, °15, Attorney, Albequerque, New
Mexico, represented Washington and Lee at the inaugural
of the president of the University of New Mexico on May 10.
At the same time Mr. Keleher was awarded the honorary
degree of Ph.D. from the University of New Mexico. Mr.
Keleher was recently elected a director of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States.

George T. Holbrook, ’23, has been elected Assistant Sec-
retary of the Century Indemnity Company and of the Stand-
ard Surety and Casualty Company, the two casualty and
surety companies of the Aetna Insurance Group, headed by
the Aetna (Fire) Insurance Company, of which W. Ross
McCain, A.B., ’98, is President.

Ben Rawlins, ‘30, Gets Appointment

Benjamin L. Rawlins, LL.B., ’30, Phi Beta Kappa, has
been appointed general attorney of Carnegie-Illinois Steel
Corporation. Immediately after graduation he entered the
law firm of Knapp, Beyem, Allen and Cushing, Chicago, and
in 1938 joined the law department of United States Steel
Corporation of Deleware where he has served until his pres-
ent appointment. Address: 436 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

 

Ben Rawlins, ’30

 

Seaman First Class Emil X. Brewka ’32, (right) of Cleve-
land, Ohio, selects the five best Associated Press Wirephotos
for Radiophoto transmission from San Francisco to the Navy
News Bureau at Guam. Discussing the current day’s Wire-
photos is San Francisco’s Associated Press Newsphoto Ed-
itor, N. R. Wilson, who handled the great majority of the
Pacific War’s pictures.

The W. and L. Swing in Belgium

Gilbert Faulk, ’33, after four years of service in the Army,
one of which was spent overseas, is again settled in the real
estate business in Monroe, Louisiana. He writes; “While
overseas I got a chance to go back into Belgium, from Ger-
many, for a few days rest; went to a Belgian carnival one
night and the merry-go-round music had only one roll, the
Washington and Lee Swing, which it played over and over
again. Despite the anachronism the music brought back such
wonderful memories that I just stood fascinated. I noticed
another officer standing close by with quite a dreamy look—
that’s right—he was a Washington and Lee man
with the help of some cogniac, we sung the Swing over and
over again, much to the delight of the Belgians present, who
tried to join in.

too—so

‘One Man’

The Alabama Polytechnic Institute has recently published
a booklet entitled “One Man,” in recognition of the out-
standing service of Kdward Asbury O’Neal, A.B., ’89, Pres-
ident, American Farm Bureau Federation since 1931. The
booklet contains many personal tributes from outstanding
leaders of American thought. Mr. O’Neal has served for
ten years as Class Agent for the Class of 1898.

[11 ]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Spring Sports Slants

By Brent Breedin

Activity on the fields of athletic endeavor here at Wash-
ington and Lee has been renewed this spring with such vigor
and interest as to embarrass many pre-war groups and to give
new meaning to the saying “absence makes the heart grow
fonder.”

Handicapped only slightly by half the normal enrollment
of students, the white-columned school summoned forth so
much enthusiasm that to follow any course but one of or-
ganizing teams in certain popular sports was impossible. It
appeared that “The Swing” would once again take its rightful
position in the realm of collegiate events and that the Gen-
erals would gladly turn in their battle attire for the more
fitting garb or athletes.

Cap’n Dick Smith, perennial master of the baseball nine,
issued his call for candidates early in March and was greeted
by a turnout of much better-than-average aspirants. Matric-
ulation of two experienced pitchers at mid-semester, a week
before the opener with Hampden-Sydney, helped to solve
what seemed to be the greatest problem.

Lettermen, Jim Humphrey and Floyd McKenna, mem-
b rs of the 1939 and 1941 squads respectively, were named
alternate captains of the nine and assured the Generals of a
strong outfield; Ev Schneider, Stu Smith, Blake Atwood, and
Johnny Via, fielding from third to first, with Bod (Dutch)
Teichert coming in from his right field position occasionally
as utility man, left little to be desired in the infield; and
the battery chores of catching Mike Boyda, Sam Brackens,
and Graham Leslie, components of what might well prove a
fine mound staff, fell into the capable hands of Johnny Bell.

At this writing Cap’n Dick’s boys are playing .500 ball
with an overall record of 3-3 and a Southern Conference rating
of 2-2.

The Generals played host to Hampden-Sydney in the
opener on Saturday, April 13, and were impressive in down-
ing the visitors 7-1 behind the four hit pitching of Brackens
and Boyda. The following Wednesday and Thursday were
disastrous for Washington and Lee, as VPI pounced on the
combined efforts of the mound corps to maul her invaders
17-4 and 18-13 at Blacksburg. Brackens pitched the Generals
back into the win column that Saturday, by earning a 5-4 de-
cision over Davidson in Lexington.

Boyda handled the twirling responsibilities in the last two
games, both being played away from home, droppng an 8-1
verdict to Hampden-Sydney on Tuesday, April 23, but com-
ing back strong Saturday to defeat William and Mary 5-4.

Batting honors in games to date have been taken by
Schneider, Bell, and Humphrey.

Tennis

Announcement by Dr. Gaines that Fred Perry, interna-
tionally famed tennis star, would return to the campus late
this spring to resume coaching the tennis squad encouraged
the inexperienced netmen under Bobby Gaines’s direction to
prepare a schedule of some sort.

Bobby Gaines, Bruce West, Don Moxham, Shep Zinovoy,
Frank Markoe, and Bob Moody in that order of rating failed
in the opening matches with Maryland and Richmond, losing
to the Terps 9-0 in Lexington and dropping a 6-3 match to
the Spiders in Richmond.

Under the tutelage of Perry, the Generals should improve
much, and several victories in the remaining matches can be
expected.

Golf

Washington and Lee’s golfers confided their hopes for
a varsity squad to Cy Twombly, only coach of that sport
since its arrival on the campus in 1928, and a team, though
highly inexperienced, was organized with a brief schedule.

Jack Harper was the only member of the group who had
previously gained any renown about the school for his ef-
forts on the links, but he found able colleagues in Bud Ke-
land, Bob Carr, and Rocky Stephenson.

Opening the campaign in Lexington, Cy’s team easily de-
feated VPI 15-3. The following week was not so successful,
and an invasion of Wahoo-land found the Generals on the
short end of a 7-2 score.

Track

Track, the last of the spring sports to organize, was as-
signed to Harold (Flash) Harvey, member of the class of
1939 and holder of the W & L, half mile record with an im-
pressive 1:54.2 timing, who agreed to coach the squad for
one year.

Students interested in track were not called until the lat-
ter part of April, and as a result, no meets have been sched-
uled with outside competition. Those individuals who prove
themselves able will be given an opportunity to compete in
the State and Southern Conference championship meets.

Spring Football

Art Lewis’s abbreviated spring football practice during
the first three weeks of March completely withdrew atten-
tion from all other spring athletics. A small squad of thirty
men put in bids for the varsity eleven, and many more are
expected between now and September.

The practice was not held by Lewis entirely to teach the
players his type of football—which incidentally will be the
conventional T-formation—but partly to get a general picture
of the material which he will have for moulding into the
University’s first football squad in four years. The picture
was encouraging as far as it went, but the acquisition of a
pair of ends and a good second team would ease matters con-
siderably.

Art brought three backs, Charlie Harrington, Frankie
Masters, and Bob (Dutch) Teichert, to Washington and Lee
with him from St. Mary’s Preflight, and all three showed
great promise in the initial scrimmages. Jack Roehl, hold-
over from the 1942 eleven and a back with Franklin and Mar-
shall during the war, Dick Yankee, and Tony Lee also
sparkled in the backfield.

In the line, tackle positions seem to be secure with Johnny
Bell and Gene Pratt, both well over 200 pounds, looking ex-
ceptionally able. Bell has previously seen action with Ohio
University and Pratt with the University of Florida.

Mark Saurs, a transfer from University of Kentucky, and
Gil Wilson, a transfer from the University of Florida, seemed
certain to be regulars at center and guard respectively.

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

> ¥*

¥.
— ¢ “ee

President Gaines speaks to Richmond Alumni at their meeting on April 12

    

   

ocal Chapter Meeting Notes

During the War, activities of local Washington and Lee
Alumni Chapters were naturally limited. At the last meeting
of the Alumni Board of Trustees in November, the Alumni
Office was directed to re-activate these chapters. This effort
has met with an enthusiastic response. In addition to the
meetings reported, the following chapters have held meet-
ings but reports on them were not received in time to be in-
cluded in this issue. They will be covered in the next issue:
Birmingham, Alabama; New Orleans, Louisiana: Shreveport,
Louisiana; Houston, Texas: Antonio, Texas; Dallas,
Texas; Norfolk, Virginia; Washington, D.C.; Baltimore,
Maryland; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and New York.

APPALACHIAN

Election of new officers and talks by Dr. Walter Flick
and Earl K. Paxton of the University staff, featured the an-

San

nual meeting of the Appalachian Chapter of the Washington
and Lee University at a dinner meeting held at the General
Shelby Hotel, Bristol, Virginia, on April 12, 1946.

Officers elected for the coming year are, Carl B. Knight,
‘26, President; William T. Martin, ’31, Secretary-Treasurer;
Robert Kane, ’17, Alumni Representative; and the following
Vice-Presidents: L. A. Dunlap, Pulaski; Fred Parks, Abing-
don; H. J. Kiser, Wise; H. N. Barker, Bristol: Allen Harris,
Jr., Johnson City, Tennessee; C. T. Herndon, Jr., Kingsport:
George A. Pruner, Lebanon; L. P. Collins, Marion; and R.
G. Craft, Gate City.

George Summerson, Bristol, immediate Past President,
presided over the meeting of the chapter, which includes
membership of alumni in Southwest Virginia and East
Tennessee,

[13 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ATLANTA

Washington and Lee Alumni of Atlanta, Georgia, and their
wives, met for dinner at the Eastlake Country Club on Fri-
day evening, April 19.

Alex M. Hitz, president of the local chapter, presided.

Harry K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Secretary, gave a report
on the present activities and plans for the future of the
Alumni Association. Dr. Walter Flick, professor of psychol-
ogy and education at Washington and Lee spoke of the past,
present and future of the University.

Joe E. Birnie, ’27, was elected President for the coming
year, to be assisted by an Executive Committee composed of
George E. Goodwin, ’39, Herbert K. Garges, ’40, and William
Methvin, 733.

Among the Alumni present were the following: J. Samuel
Slicer; George C. Moseley; Ewing S. Humphreys; Edward L.
Potter; Carl C. Moore; Bland Terry; Alex M. Hitz; Edmund
B. Magers; Dr. Keith C. Rice; William H. Smith; Elliott
M. Stewart; Lieutenant Commander Benjamin H. Rigg;
Maurice C. Langhorne; Howard C. Trawick; Joseph E.
Birnie; I. Derrell Felder; John Kell Martin; P. Duane Berry;
Leon D. Patton; George E. Goodwin; Herbert K. Garges;
Alex M. Hitz, Jr.; Dr. Sidney Isenberg; Robert L. Garges;
William W. Tatgenhorst; and Louis F. Plummer.

CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

W. Goodridge Sale, Jr., B.A. ’24, LL.B. ’27, President,
presided at a dinner meeting of Charleston, West Virginia,
alumni on the evening of April 5, at the Daniel Boone Hotel.
Dr. Gaines was the principal speaker and addressed 132
alumni, their wives, parents of students now at the Univer-
sity, some students home on spring vacation, prospective stu-
dents and their parents, and other guests who are friends of
Washington and Lee. His talk was in the nature of a report
on the problems of Washington and Lee during the war, the
record of the University and its alumni participation in the
war, its future, including its many problems.

Among the alumni present were the following: Frank
Bell, Jr.; Judge Julian F. Bouchelle; Dr. G. B. Capito; John
Capito; George L. Coyle; D. Boone Dawson; Arthur Lee
Eberly; Norman S. Fitzhugh; Norman §. Fitzhugh, Jr.; Carl
L, Gilchrist; Cecil Hardy; Newton Harman; Zeb H. Hern-
don; Ken Hines; Homer A. Holt; Forrest E. Huffman; James
G. Jeter, Jr.; Pierce B. Lantz; Judge William T. Lovins; John
Morrison; Tom Moses; Charles G. Peters; Leslie Price; and
W. Goodridge Sale, Jr.;

Also present were: Lyle Sattes; Jack Savage; Ed Seitz;
Kay Thomas; Brown Truslow; Riley Wilson; Major Charles
A. Wood; Jack Higgins; Andy Payne; Ralph Smith; Harry
V. Campbell; James Gilman; Bill Bowers; Kelly Reed; Joe
Blackburn; Sam McCorkle; Dorr Tucker; J. Schwabe; John
Thomas and George Ward.

At noon on the same day Dr. Gaines spoke to about two
hundred and seventy-five at lunch at the Rotary Club. His ad-
dress was on the subject of the schools as the servant of de-
mocracy.

CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE

Seventy Washington and Lee alumni and guests met for
dinner at the Hotel Patten in Chattanooga, Tennessee on the
evening of March 29. The meeting was in charge of Clarence
R. Avery, ’14, retiring president, and the principal speaker
was Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines. Dr. Gaines’ subject was
“The Responsibility of Education Today.” New officers elected
for the ensuing year were Charles lL. Claunch, ’27, attorney,
Chattanooga Bank Building, and Henry Trotter, ’22, of

Trotter, Boyd and Keese, Provident Building. Among the
guests present for the occasion were six boys from Baylor
School and eleven from McCallie. Some of these boys have
already applied for admission to Washington and Lee ané
others are immediate prospects.

CHICAGO

Alumni from Chicago and vicinity met for dinner at the
University Club on April 5, with Philip P. Page, Chicago
Journal of Commerce, president of the local chapter, presid-
ing.

Arrangements for the meeting were made by Gil Gardner,
40; Bob Walker, 41; and Bill Symonds, °33.

Fifty-five alumni, wives, and parents of students now in
school were present.

Dean Frank J. Gilliam, represented the University, and
brought the alumni present up-to-date on current conditions
on the campus and plans for the future, with special reference
to the Bicentennial celebration in 1948-1849.

A moving picture, in color, of Washington and Lee in
wartime, was shown.

The following officers were elected to serve for the com-
ing year: John Wilson Cook, Jr., "19, President; Clifford M.
Peale, ’20, Vice-President; Howard Dye Carver, ’33, Secre-
tary; and Robert Finley Walker, Jr., ’41, Treasurer.

CINCINNATI

E. Clyde Hoge, President of the local alumni chapter,
presided at a dinner meeting of Washington and Lee alumni
held in the Della Robia Room of the Gibson Hotel, Cincinnati,
Ohio, on April 4. Dean Frank J. Gilliam represented the Uni-
versity, and gave a clear and detailed description of condi-
tions at Washington and Lee at the present time and in the
immediate future.

New officers were elected as follows: John G. Tomlin,
B.A. ’38, President; John Carlisle Fix, B.S. ’41, Vice-Presi-
dent; and Jerome A. Heldman, B.A. °40, Secretary and Treas-
urer. E. Clyde Hoge and Roger Bear had served as President
and Secretary respectively since 1941, when the younger
alumni were doing their bit in the war effort. All of the newly
elected officers were in the service.

Dr. Charles Tabb Pearce, ’89, the oldest alumnus present,
sat at the speakers’ table and gave many reminiscences of the
Lexington of his day, which were most interesting to the
younger alumni present, who saw at least some change in
the town from his day, though not too much.

Among the alumni present were the following: Joseph P.
Adams; Roger J. Bear; Lawrence Bradford; Robert Lee
Early, Jr.; John Carlisle Fix; Harry W. Gassman; Ensign
Alfred L. Heldman, Jr.; Jerome Alfred Heldman; James S.
Hill; E. Clyde Hoge; Stanley A. Hooker, Jr.; Lieutenant Al-
fred R. Kreimer; Robert Stanley Lambert, Jr.; Lieutenant
Douglas Willis McCammish; John B. McKee, Jr.; Lieuten-
ant Commander Joe B. McMath; John Whitney Menzies;
Captain Thomas G. Morris; Dr. Charles Tabb Pearce; William
W. Perkins; Lieutenant Lee Redmond; Lieutenant Jack Lane
Reiter; Lieutenant Commander E. P. Rice; Captain James A.
Saltsman; Lieutenant (j.g.) Robert B. Shreve; John Grant
Tomlin; Sydney Melton Wright; and John W. Zimmerman.

DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Thirty-one alumni from Detroit and vicinity met for
dinner at the Whittier Hotel on April 6, with Dean Frank J.
Gilliam representing the University, who brought an inter-

[ 14 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

esting message from Washington and Lee and outlined plans
for the Bicentennial celebration in 1949.

Mr. Craig Ritchie, representing the local ATO Scholar-
ship Committee, spoke of the work being done by his com-
mittee in helping worthy boys attain their goal in education.
Dr. Edward Lyons, President of the Detroit Alumni Chapter,
presiding, appointed George Hughes, Ralph Hummel and
Alfred Taylor to cooperate with Mr. Ritchey in his worthy
effort. It is hoped the local alumni and the University can help
some boy reach Washington and Lee.

Plans for greater activity among the local alumni were
discussed.

An excellent dinner was served by the Whittier and ac-
cordian music and song were furnished by Miss Beatrice
Stencil and souvenirs in wax, Donald Duck, bunnies and
Easter Eggs, courtesy of Socony Vacuum (via Sam Keller)
were presented to those present.

The following alumni were present, with their wives and
other guests: Ralph Bookmyer; Angus Campbell; Sherwin
French; George Hughes; Ralph Hummel; Douglas Jones;
Sam Keller; Stuart Lawrence; Ed Lyons; Robert Milligan;
Ed Molesworth; Fred Pass; William Scott; George Stout;
Alfred Taylor; and John Wertman.

HUNTINGTON, WEST VIRGINIA

Speaking before the Tri-State Alumni Association at its
annual dinner meeting at the Hotel Prichard in Huntington,
West Virginia, on April 4, Dr. Francis P. Gaines related the
part Washington and Lee University is playing in the further-
ing of education for returned veterans, stating that the stu-
dent veterans were making an outstanding and unsurpassed
record of scholastic achievement. Dr. Gaines said that the
faculty had been deeply concerned over advance reports of
how veterans could be expected to behave when they re-
turned to school, and that they had gone so far as to obtain
a psychologist to lecture them on the expected victims of
tension, neurosis and the like. ““The veterans returned,” he
said, “and it turned out we were joyfully wrong. Over 99 per-
cent of those boys received satisfactory reports on their mid-
semester grades last week, a record which has not been ex-
celled by any previous group in the history of the school.”

Dr. Gaines briefly sketched the tentative plans for the Bi-
centennial celebration in 1948-1949, then told the gathering,
“I want to bring assurance to the alumni that the basic prin-
ciples of our school are still there. Our noted honor system
has stood the test of wars, depressions and physical disasters,
and we are justly proud, for we realize that the students them-
selves are the keepers of this pledge. You kept it when you
were there and you can feel assured that its principles have
not gone astray.”

The dinner was held in the Prichard ball room with about
seventy guests in attendance. Officers of the local chapter,
which includes alumni from Ashland, Ironton, Ohio, Logan,
West Virginia, and Williamson, are Elliott Vawter, president,
S. Spessard McNeer, vice-president, and R. C. Campbell,
secretary-treasurer. The following alumni were present and
other guests included wives of alumni, parents of boys now
in school, and interested friends of the University.

Among those present from Huntington, West Virginia
were: Judge Ira Philip Baer; F. M. Bailey; Amos A. Bolen;
W. Roy Campbell; Joe W. Dingess; Joseph W. Fitchett;
Herbert Fitzpatrick; C. T. Garten; Philip P. Gibson; Dr.
Thomas L. Grove; W. G. Grove; George Edward Heiner;
H. P. Henshaw, Jr.; Dr. William P. Hooper; T. Sheldon
Jones; George W. Keller; Edward Harvey Long; George
Minor McLaughlin; Francis H. McNeer; Selden S. McNeer;

Jo A. McVay; J. T. McVay; T. J. C. Mayo; James Edward
Moore; Elliott Vawter; V. B. Watts; and Clarence Richard
Weinberger.

Those present from Ashland, Kentucky, were: Robert
LeWright Browning; A. Wendell Mann; Robert A. Morris;
John Strother; and R. P. Parmalee. Also from Prestonsburg,
Kentucky: B. F. Combs; and Jo Hobson. Charles Terrence
T. Wilson from Chesapeake, Ohio; and Judge W. T. Lovins
from Charleston, West Virginia.

JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

Dr. L. J. Desha, head of the Chemistry Department of
Washington and Lee, accompanied by Mrs. Desha, were
guests of alumni at a dinner at the Jacksonville Yacht Club
on the evening of April 2. Following the dinner, a regular
meeting of alumni was called into session.

Officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows:
Rhydon C. Latham, President; Charles C. Smith, Secretary;
and John W. Ball, Treasurer.

Dr. Desha was the principal speaker of the evening and
brought the alumni present up to date on the post-war plans
of the University and for the Bicentennial celebration to be
held in 1949,

The following alumni were present, with their wives and
other guests: Ralph N. Andrews, Jr.; John W. Ball; John
Churchwell, Jr.; A. B. Conley, Jr.; Eli Fink; David W.
Foerster; Harry B. Fozzard; Dr. James B. Freeman; Sollace
M. Freeman; Russell L. Frink; James P. Hill; Robert L,.
Hutchinson; Henry T. Jones; Rhydon C. Latham; Edward C.
Newsom; Bayard B. Shields; Charles C. Smith; J. I. Trip-
lett; Damon G. Yerkes; and Frank E. Calhoun.

LOUISVILLE

Eighty-five Washington and Lee alumni, wives, and par-
ents of students held a dinner meeting at the Brown Hotel
on the evening of April 3.

Wathen Knebelkamp, president of the local association,
presided.

Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Milburne, Principal of Male High
School, were honor guests.

An unusual number of young alumni were present and
Dr. Gaines, who was the principal speaker of the evening,
reported a beautiful banquet with flowers and music.

Dr. Gaines spoke on present conditions at the University
and plans for the future, with special emphasis on the cele-
bration of Washington and Lee’s Bicentennial in 1948-1949.

The following alumni were present: Edwin D. Axton, Jr.;
Terry Blandford; Henry K. Hill; Robert C. Hobson; Edward
Rietzie, Jr.; Ernest Woodward, Jr.; Courtney Wadlington;
Alex Bates; Temple Lewis; Murrell Klein; Edward Metcalf;
Jack Hardwick; George Burks; Edward F. Devol, Jr.; Ben
Kaplan; Calhoun Holcomb; Morrison Nelson; Arthur Tabb;
Tilford Payne, Jr.; Thomas Nugent, Jr.; E. G. Barker; G.
Richard Day; Robert P. Hobson; Wathen Knebelkamp;
William E. Whaley, Jr.; Jean S. Freidberg; Nicholas W.
Klein; William Hoge; G. Hunt Collins; William Chandler;
Addison Dimmiett; F. A. Sampson; Robert Coleman; John
Faulkner; Alfred C. Krieger, Jr.; Henry Merritt; Charles
Semple, Jr.; Thomas Tuley, Jr.; and John J. Davis, Jr.

Guests: W. S. Milburn; George D. Caldwell; Ches Mc-
Call; W. H. Kinnaird; J. Stoner Wiggington; Alfred C. Krie-
ger, Sr.; Thomas Courtney; Fred T. Switow; W. Culver
Vaughn; William H. Day; George D. Caldwell, Jr.; Ches
McCall, Jr.; W. H. Kinnaird, Jr.; Stoner Wiggington, Jr.;
Tilford Payne, Sr.; William H. Courtney, II; Irvin Sitow.

[15 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA

The Lynchburg, Virginia, chapter of Washington and Lee
alumni gathered for a dinner meeting at the Boonsboro Coun-
try Club on the evening of April 16. President Francis P.
Gaines, Alumni Secretary, Harry K. (Cy) Young and Treas-
urer, Earl S. Mattingly of the University were guests of the
chapter.

In what he termed “A Report to the Alumni,” Dr. Gaines
reviewed the recent war history of the University and dis-
cussed its present and future prospects. Dr. Gaines cited the
remarkable record of 375 veterans now enrolled at the Uni-
versity, only two of whom were doing unsatisfactory work
at the end of the first semester. The records show that they
are doing 20 percent better work than before the war.

Asserting that few major changes were contemplated, he
said the administration will continue “what we have been
doing and try to do it better.”” He announced that a course
in humanities would be introduced this year, a general
strengthening of pre-engineering work, and new courses in
philosophy, government, social organization, and electronics
within a short time.

Dr. Gaines emphasized the need for a larger number of
scholarships, and offered the suggestion of memorial scholar-
ships for the 125 students who sacrificed their lives in the
war. He paid special tribute to Dan Justice and Bill Dabney,
Lynchburg students who were killed.

Announcing plans for an elaborate Bicentennial celebra-
tion in 1949, Dr. Gaines devoted the last portion of his ad-
dress to a kaleidoscopic review of the University’s 200-year
history, paying tribute to the memory of the sturdy Scotch-
Irish Presbyterians who founded the School, George Wash-
ington, who gave it the inspiration of his character and lead-
ership as well as a financial grant “enormous in those days;”
Robert E. Lee, its president after the War Between the
States, and all the students who died in the great world
struggles.

James R. Caskie, Lynchburg member of the University
Board of Trustees, spoke briefly after Dr. Gaines, and thanked
the president for an “eloquent and inspiring’ message.

Earlier Harry K. (Cy) Young, alumni secretary, dis-
cussed the progress of alumni activities. Also introduced
were Earl S. Mattingly, treasurer of the University, and
Thomas S. Kirkpatrick of Lynchburg, vice president of the
Alumni Association. Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., president of the
local chapter, served as toastmaster and introduced Dr.
Gaines. :

The following alumni were present: E. Thurman Boyd;
C. H. Patterson; S. H. Williams; John Devine, Jr.; James R.
Caskie; D. R. Phelps; Edmund Schaefer, III; Fred M. Davis;
Carroll B. Wiltshire; Thomas S. Kirkpatrick; W. W. Lynn,
Jr.; Richard Howell; Edward S. Graves; H. S. Bryant; John
G. Holland; Massie Yuille; O. Raymond Cundiff; Basil G.
Watkins; Mosby G. Perrow, Jr.; R. M. Barker; J. O. Watts,
Jr.; Peyton Winfree, Jr.; A. T. Gunn; Robert Glass; John
Mosby; Alex Mosby; Edward Calvert; Sam Hawkins; Hugh
D. Ebert; Ralph Moore; J. E. Key; O. C. Rucker; C. W.
White; and S. E. Oglesby.

MIAMI, FLORIDA

Washington and Lee alumni of Miami, Florida, met for
dinner at the Downtown Club on Wednesday, April 3. Dr.
L,. J. Desha, who was accompanied by Mrs. Desha, repre-
sented the University and made an interesting talk on present
day affairs at Washington and Lee and the plans for its Bi-
centennial celebration in 1949.

The following alumni were present: Dr. L. J. Desha; Sena-
tor F. M. Hudson; John A. Moore; Judge W. F. Blanton;
Oliver P. Searing; Fred W. Cason; Lewis Twyman; Mar-
shall G. Twyman; O. B. Simmons, Jr.; Luther L. Copley;
George T. Clark; Dr. Herbert W. Virgin, Jr.; Charles J.
Holland; J. Emmett Wolfe; Montague Rosenberg; R. B.
Gautier, Jr.; Bernard Spector; Oliver H. Ward; and Stuart
Faison.

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

At a banquet meeting of more than 100 Washington and
Lee alumni of Richmond and Petersburg, Virginia, their
wives and friends, held at the Hotel Jefferson on the eve-
ning of April 12, Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Richmond attorney,
introduced Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of the
University, and Stuart Sanders, II, president of the local
alumni, presided.

Dr. Gaines reviewed the present activities at the Univer-
sity and its plans for the future, laying special emphasis on
the extensive program which is being made for the Bicen-
tennial celebration of Washington and Lee to be held in
1949.

During the course of his talk, Dr. Gaines made the first
public announcement that the General Education Board of
New York has established a policy whereby every $4 raised
for the Washington and Lee endowment fund up to $1,500,000,
will be matched by $1 from that board until December 31,
1948. This offer is made in connection with the University’s
Bicentennial celebration.

Harry K. (Cy) Young, alumni secretary, also addressed
the alumni briefly on current developments on the campus.

TAMPA, FLORIDA

John Bell, president of the Tampa, Florida Washington
and Lee Alumni Chapter, presided at a dinner meeting held
in the Arbor room, Hillsboro Hotel, on Friday evening,
April 5.

Dr. L. J. Desha, representative from the University, was
the principal speaker.

C. T. Dawkins was elected president of the organization
to succeed John Bell.

WAYNESBORO, VIRGINIA

Washington and Lee’s postwar plans were outlined to
Waynesboro, Virginia alumni by Professor Raymon T. John-
son of the law school faculty at a dinner meeting held at the
Hotel General Wayne on the evening of April 8. There were
about forty guests present, including alumni from Staunton
and Augusta County.

Sydney G. White, retiring president of the Waynesboro
chapter, presided at the meeting and proposed that the
Staunton and Waynesboro chapters consolidate forces rather
than continue the separate chapters.

Dr. Johnson described briefly the part played by Wash-
ington and Lee during the war and its association with the
Army School for Personnel Services. Over 25,000 Army stu-
dents passed through this school.

Harry K. (Cy) Young, alumni secretary, spoke of the
good work done by the Waynesboro chapter in the past. He
said, “It is the smallest chapter in the smallest city in our
chain, yet it has done much more work in the past than some
of the larger chapters.”

Washington and Lee’s new athletic policy was discussed

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

briefly and plans were outlined for the University’s Bicen-
tennial celebration in 1949,

In a short business meeting, J. Fred Cook, II, of Waynes-
boro, was elected president for the coming year, Ross V.
Hersey, of Staunton, vice-president, and Bruce Quayle,
Waynesboro, was renamed secretary-treasurer.

Alumni present, many of them with their wives, included:
W. C. Raftery; J. S. Hawkins; T. L. Seehorn; Eugene John-
son; J. Fred Cook, II; Sydney G. White; E. J. Milligan;
Charles Ellison; R. J. Haller; John Mehler; W. E. Moore;
Harry A. Laugh; Ralph Morrison; Ross V. Hersey; Wood-
son B. Gillock; Pliny Fishburne; William A. Moore; Arch
Sproul; Hubert Echols; Wilfred B. Webb; J. Waller Calli-
son; and H. W. Trimble.

UPPER POTOMAC

The Upper Potomac chapter of local Washington and
Lee alumni met at the Ali Ghan Shrine Country Club in
Cumberland, Maryland, for dinner on the evening of April 12.

Officers for the coming year were elected, as follows: J.
Goodloe Jackson, ’12, President; William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38,
Secretary; John T. Fey, ’39, Treasurer; and Alex Sloan, 713,
Historian. J. Goodloe Jackson was also elected representative
of the chapter to the Alumni Council.

The following alumni were among those present: Paul D.
Pickens; James A. Black; L. Leslie Helmer; Clarence H.
Stein; John McBee; William L. Bruce; J. Goodloe Jackson;
William L. Wilson, Jr.; and John T. Fey.

 

A Veteran Returns

By Addison Lanier

Now that we are back at Washington and Lee and the
“old men” are beginning to return in a fairly constant stream,
we have trouble remembering just how many doubts we had
and how uncertain we were about what Lexington and the
University would be like. I’m not yet sure whether our
doubts were about the school, how things would have changed,
how different many of the student-body would be from
us, or perhaps, about ourselves. A year ago anybody would
have had a really difficult job persuading me to believe that
I would find conditions as they are today, and that I would
feel about it all just as I did before the war.

There are a lot of changes right now but by fall most of
these will probably have disappeared. There is the different
outlook of the men who have come back and the influence
of the returnees on the new students. There is a different ap-
proach, a new concentration, which is certainly all for the
good.

The great influx came in February and many things are
still in a transition state. At first there were a number of
little things which seemed changed. There was laxness about
speaking, perhaps caused by students who were here saw each
other so often during the day, and it may well have been be-
cause of the sudden increase in size of the student-body and
hence so many new faces.

We had talked so much about our plans for coming back
to Washington and Lee; the things which had seemed so
sound and sensible, conventional dress, speaking, the honor
system; were the subjects of discussion as much as house
parties or dances, and it is those things which we consider
as vastly more important when we come back.

Sports have started and in this student body of 450 men
I have seen more enthusiasm and more talk about a football
team, about all our teams as a matter of fact, when there
haven't even been games in some sports, than I saw in the
years immediately preceding the war. Apparently this does
not come from the veterans, but in a round about way, is
partly attributable to the absence of those things during the
war. There have been dances, better ones than we had ex-
pected, and the best still to come, at Finals. These things have
been better than we hoped to find them this year, but it is the

traditions that we talked about first when we came back.
The changes we anticipated are hard to find.

I don’t know how many old students have come back—
I do know there are men here who entered Washington and
Lee originally in 1936, 1937 and 1938. With that strong tie,
and going back that far, it is only reasonable to expect that
by next year the school will seem unchanged to an alumnus
on the campus.

There are, however, changes not so apparent at first, in
individuals as we knew them, which come more from their
personal thinking than from anything connected directly
with the University. Throughout my army experience I heard
men who were going back to school talk about having real-
ized what they had missed, what they intended to do about
working harder, and above all, about application. That was a
much used word in discussions about going back to school.
During the last two months I have had cause to realize what
that word meant. Men are working harder than they ever
worked before in order to keep up.

There is plenty of study but it is not overemphasized at
the expense of the sports angle. Men who spent three years
in physical training classes want to hold on to what they got
from them. It’s a hard thing to be in any branch of the
service and not live a reasonably well balanced life. There is
more class work here and at the same time there is a better
balance.

Where the man individually is concerned there isn’t a
noticeable change. A lot of inward change but not of the
sort that makes an apparent difference. The war may be a
casual part of a conversation, but it doesn’t go beyond that.
The English department has had a lot of themes turned in
about service experience, but they don’t enter into many dis-
cussions. Certainly there has been no returned veteran psy-
chological problem.

I believe, very sincerely, that the services have sent back
a group of men better fitted to appreciate Washington and
Lee, its traditions and its life, and men who have learned a
great deal about how best they can contribute to the school
and profit from what the school has to offer.

[ 17 |

 

Class Agents for 1946

1878-"91—Alumni Office.

1892 —Dr. E. L. Green, University of South Carolina, Box
10, Columbia, S. C.

—B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, N. Y.

—E. P. Coles, 501 Commercial National Bank Build-
ing, Charlotte, N.C.

—John P. Walker, 907 N. 17th Street, Boise, Idaho

—Marion W. Ripy, 4 E. 43rd St., New York 17, N.Y.

—Edward Wohlwender, 209 Murray Building, Colum-
bus, Georgia.

1893
1894

1895
1896
1897

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street,
Chicago 2, Illinois.
1899 —Dr. James A. McClure, 617 9th Avenue, South,

St. Petersburg 5, Florida.
—Alfred Grayson Davis, R.R. 2, Lewisburg, W. Va.
—Rev. R. Waller Blain, 140 Ziegler Street, Ste. Gene-
vieve, Missouri.
—Volney M. Brown, I! Paso National Bank Building,
El Paso, Texas.
—Rev. Cary R. Blain, Circleville, West Virginia.
—Dr. John Henry Day, care of Seventh Baptist
Church, North Avenue and St. Paul St., Baltimore
2, Maryland.
—Judge Walter G. Riddick, 2416 Wolfe, Little Rock,
Arkansas.
—Dr. F. R. Crawford, Box 208, Farmville, Virginia.
—Vincent M. Miles, Solicitor, Post Office Department,
Washington 25, D. C.
1908-A—Alan Porter Lee, 136 Liberty St., New York 6, N.Y.
1908-L—Alonzo B. McMullen, 1111-15 First National Bank
Building, Tampa 2, Florida.
1909-A—Sam M. Engelhardt, Box 34, Montgomery, Alabama.
1909-L—Beirne Stedmen, Box 412, Charlottesville, Virginia.
1910-A—Wyatt C. Hedrick, 1005 First National Bank Build-
ing, Fort Worth 2, Texas.
1910-L—Wilber L. Tilden, Box 3146, Orlando, Florida.
1911-A—Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, Medical Arts Building, An-
derson, South Carolina.
1911-L—Luther G. Scott, Box 334, Bluefield, West Virginia.
1912-A—J. Frank Key, Buena Vista, Virginia.
1912-L—William J. Wilcox, 510 Hamilton St. Allentown, Pa.
1913-A—C. C. Moore, 411 Bona Allen Bldg., Atlanta 3, Ga.
1913-L—Ryland G. Craft, Gate City, Virginia
1914-A—Edward M. Craig, Jr., Neversink Road, Liberty, N.Y.
1914-L—J. Carlton Hudson, 500 National Bank of Commerce
Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia.
1915-A—J. Carl Fisher, 208 Witherspoon Rd., Baltimore 12,
Maryland.
1915-L—Alumni Office
1916-A—A. L. Bennett, 3900 W. Broad St., Richmond, Va.
1916-L—Selden S. McNeer, 1000 First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.
1917-A—Dr. R. Glenn Craig, 490 Post Street, Room 521, San
Francisco, California
1917-L—Harry V. Campbell, 1102 Security Bank and Trust
Building, Box 803, Charleston, West Virginia
—Fulton W. Hoge, Williamson, Hoge & Judson, Title
Insurance Building, Los Angeles, California
—Dr. C. Houston Patterson, Presbyterian Manse, 315
Stowers Street, Bluefield, West Virginia.
1920-A—Thomas McA. Stubbs, 111 W. Hampton Avenue,
Sumter, South Carolina
1920-L—Pinkney Grissom, 1801
Dallas, Texas.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, Peoples Nat’l Bank, Lynchburg, Va.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, P. O. Box 2848, Orlando, Fla.

1900
1901

1902
1903
1904
1905

1906
1907

1918

1919

Republic Bank Building,

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving St., Arlington, Va.

1923-A—George C. Mason, Madison, North Carolina

1923-L—Robert H. Carr, Box 460, Jasper, Alabama

1924-A—Wyatt French, 6419 Three Chopt Road, Richmond
21, Virginia.

1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, American Bank & Trust Com-
pany Building, Suffolk, Virginia

1925-A—H. F. McMillan, P.O. Box 26, Athens, Tennessee.

1925-L—George S. Wilson, Jr., 414 Masonic Bldg., Owens-
boro, Kentucky.

1926-A—Carl B. Knight, Big Stone Gap, Virginia.

1926-L—Earle A. Cadmus, New Kirn Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1927-A—George E. Burks, 402 Washington Building, Louis-
ville, Kentucky

1927-L—Judge Thomas A. Graves, Court
Texas

1928-A—William J. Luria, 6 Fisher Rd., Jenkintown, Penna.

1928-L—T. B. Bryant, Jr., Bryant Bldg., Orangeburg, S. C.

1929-A—Henry P. Johnston, Box 2553, Birmingham, Ala.

1929-L—M. Melvin Heuser, 5920 Worthington Circle, Falls
Church, Virginia

1930-A—Kenneth L. Keil, 909 Myers Bldg., Springfield, IIL.

1930-L—Howard B. Busold, 379 Valley Rd., W. Orange, N.J.

1931-A—Chandler W. Gordon, care of Gordon Lumber Co.,
P.O. Box 1274, Asheville, North Carolina.

1931-L—John Charles Smith, 50 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, III.

1932-A—William C. Mulligan, 38 South Dearborn Street,
Chicago 3, Illinois

1932-L—George A. Speer, Jr., P.O. Box 1364, Sanford, Fla.

1933-A—Luther F. Violett, Drawer 6-D, Central Station, St.
Louis 1, Missouri

1933-L—James Hoge Tyler, III, 924 Graydon Avenue, Nor-
folk, Virginia

1934-A—Richard H. Grafton, One West State Street, Tren-
ton 8, New Jersey.

1934-L—Clarence S. Worrell, Pineville, West Virginia

1935-A—William Schuhle, Adrian College, Adrian, Michigan

1935-L—E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., 100 Market Street, Cam-
den, New Jersey

1936-A—Kenneth P. Lane, Box 1538, Richmond, Virginia.

1936-L—Hugh D. McNew, 1336 McCutcheon, Richmond
Heights 17, Missouri.

1937-A—Robert M. Peek, Jr., 711 Wallace Bldg., Little Rock,
Arkansas.

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of J. Goldsmith & Sons Co.,
Memphis 1, Tennessee

1938-A—Charles R. Skinner, 145 Whiting Lane, West Hart-
ford 7, Connecticut

1938-L—Frank L. Price, 1400 South George Mason Drive,
Barcroft Apts. No. 22, Arlington, Virginia.

1939-A—Charles H. Semple, Jr., 1214 Summit Avenue, Louis-
ville 4, Kentucky.

1939-L—W. W. Perkins, Room 806, Transportation Building,
Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

1940-A—Gilbert Gardner, 559 Surf St., Apt. 8-J, Chicago 14,
Illinois

1940-L—John F. O’Connor, 41 Chapin Pky., Buffalo, N.Y.

1941-A—Paul D. Brown, Court House Square, Arlington, Va.

1941-L—Peter Barrow, Jr., Nicholas County Bank Building,
Summersville, West Virginia

1942-A—Richard B. Spindle, III, 4 University Place, Lexing-
ton, Virginia

1942-L—Robert C. Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville 2, Kentucky

House, Cuero,

1943. —Albert D. Darby, Jr., 2010 W. Grace St., Richmond
20, Virginia.
1944 —R. Bruce Quayle, News-Virginian, Waynesboro, Va.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1879

1893

 

William M. McElwee, hale
and hearty and very hand-
some, celebrated his 86th
birthday on January 5, 1946.
He is President of the Peo-
ples National Bank, Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

1888
W. J. Humphreys is still
much interested in matters

We wish to apologize for any errors in the class notes
appearing in this issue. The letters from which these
notes are taken were written, for the most part, early
last spring. The rapid demobilization of alumni from
the several branches of the armed forces of the United
States have no doubt rendered some of these notes in-
accurate or out-of-date. If so, we apologize. We would
like to have more material for class notes in letters
to your Class Agent this year.

Harrington Waddell, Lex-
ington, Virginia, is happy
that his two sons, Finley,
Washington and Lee ’29,
and Edgar, ’30, are both out

of the service and back in
this country. His _ four
grandchildren are a_ great

pleasure and he is especially
proud to have a grandson,
nearly seven years old, to
carry on the family name.

 

 

intellectual, especially those
of a scientific nature, stim-
ulated by daily association with members of the Cosmos Club
in Washington, D.C. He does some writing, recently having
supplied a request for a revised printing of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, and a Journal of the Franklin Institute. Also he
has written his recollections to date, in which Washington and
Lee University furnishes many that often and lingeringly are
recalled. Mr. Humphreys retired from George Washington
University in 1934 as Professor Emeritus. He has published
many scientific works, among them, “Ways of the Weather”
in 1942. His address is Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.

1889

Samuel M. Dold, 401 1/3 West Monroe Street, Spring-
field, Illinois, was temporarily indisposed and therefore un-
able to attend the alumni meeting held in Chicago on April
5. He sends greetings to his classmates and says to tell them
that “Sam Dold of ’89, the best athlete at old W & L at that
time, is still holding his own.” Mr. Dold’s eldest son, Calvin
M. Dold, ’31-’34, is now with the Federal Power Commission
in Washington, D.C.

Dr. James Q. Chambers, M.D., University of Pennsyl-
vania, 1899, is now retired and is living at 3624 Holmes Street,
Kansas City, Missouri.

1891
Frank A. Nelson has his offices in the Hamilton National

Bank, and his residence at 146 North Crest
Road, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

e A\it
1892 gine |

E. L. Green, Class Agent again this year, is
finishing up his forty-sixth year of teaching at
the University of South Carolina. He writes
that he will be put on the retirement list in

hy }

a
x

July. His first teaching was “Prep Greek” at ——
‘ashing i —

Washington and Lee in 1890 =>
W. F. Moore is a member of the law firm ae

of Moore & Moore, First National Bank

Building, Paris, Texas.
g

Judge John M. Woods is a member of the
law firm of Spilman, Thomas & Battle, Ka-
nawha Banking and Trust Company Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

   
  
 

|

  
 
   
 

as \ |,
[erree | ‘\ ni
ren ba = 4 :

_-
.
-
——

_—_—_———

 

ia
eit)

=a
P|

ii feaa

y

Ul

/
H

 

 

Colonel Elijah Funkhous-
er has retired from active work in his profession as consult-
ing engineer and is now living at his Virginia home, “Elma-
vido Heights” near Lexington.

1894

Leslie M. Crouch reports that he is still active and enjoy-
ing a marked degree of fine physical health. He has practiced
law in Harrisonville, Missouri for more than fifty-one years.
His son, Leslie M., Jr., is a member of the same law firm,
Crouch, Crouch and Kimberlin.

M. H. Guerrant raises oranges, tangerines and grapefruit
in Florida, his home being in Umatilla. He is planning a trip
to California this summer by plane.

Charles B. Leech lives on a farm twelve miles from Lex-
ington, but spends his winters in Florida with two daughters
who live in St. Augustine. His wife died in 1935. He has five
boys, two girls and six grandchildren.

1895

William McChesney Martin, member of the University
Board of Trustees, represented Washington and Lee at the
inauguration of Dr. Arthur H. Compton as chancellor of
Washington University on Friday, February 22, in St. Louis,
Missouri. The inauguration took place on the 93rd anniver-
sary of the founding of the university.

Reverend C. J. Boppell, after serving as a
missionary from the Presbyterian Church in
Africa, and later as a minister in this country,
is now retired and devoting his time to writ-
ing tracts of “Bible Mastery,” reaching into
47 states, seven Canadian provinces and three
foreign countries. His home is at 2666—37th
Avenue, $.W., Seattle, Washington.

> \\

1896

= i} William D. Adams, 1926 South Beckley,
ATT YAR Dallas, Texas, writes a nice letter to his Class
: JJ Agent, but gives no news from which a note

Prat ail can be written. However, there is no question
9 as to his loyalty and affection for Washing-
ton and Lee.

——_~.

a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1898

Norman §S. Fitzhugh writes that he is doing the same
work, Certified Public Accountant—only more of it. He
heard Dr. Gaines make two splendid speeches recently to the
Charleston Alumni and the Rotary Club, and says it is not
difficult for the Charleston alumni, with their natural enthu-
siasm, to keep up their interest in the University, with such
inspiration.

1899

James Mullen is a member of the law firm of Williams,
Mullen & Hazelgrove, 1001 East Main Street, Richmond,
Virginia. He spends much of his time in Washington, on ac-
count of Government control of the business of clients.

1900

J. Ran Tucker says; “I think, perhaps, the matter of most
interest to the Alumni which I could report as having oc-
curred during the past year, is the fact that my son, John
Randolph Tucker, Jr., who was discharged from the Army
as Lieutenant-Colonel of the Armored Forces in October
last, after nearly five years of service, has enrolled as a stu-
dent in the Law School at Washington and Lee. He is a
graduate of VMI, in the Class of ’37, and is the sixth gen-
eration of my family in a straight line to have followed the
profession of law, and the fourth in a straight line to have
been connected with Washington and Lee, either as a stu-
dent, a professor, or both. I think that this record of con-
tinuity in the profession is unique and doubt whether a like
record exists elsewhere in this country.” Mr. Tucker, Sr., is
a member of the law firm of Tucker, Mays, Cabell & Moore,
State Planters Bank Building, Richmond, Virginia.

R. A. Watson is a member of the Law firm of Watson &
Taylor, Court House, Charlottesville, Virginia.

1901

Dr. Arnold Louis Meredith is practicing med-
icine in Prairie Home, Missouri. He has served
three terms as Mayor of Prairie Home.

1902

D. E. Witt, State Agent, New Hampshire
Fire Insurance Company, Lynchburg, Virginia,
says; “My hair is not yet white but there is so
little of it left that the color doesn’t make any
difference at all. I have nothing to report that
would be of interest to others except that I
hope to be here and able to attend and see many
others present at the Bicentennial Celebration
in 1949.”

Dr. W. T. Ellis, is surgeon to the Stetson
Hospital and to the Doctors’ Hospital in Phil-
adelphia, Pennsylvania. His address is 1115
Lindley Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Sam Price, after leaving school lived for var-
ious periods in Augusta, Georgia, Atlanta and
Charleston, West Virginia, finally locating per-
manently in his home town of Lewisburg, West
Virginia, where he is practicing law under the
firm name of Price & McWhorter. He is still
unmarried and says his prospects for the future don’t look so
bright along that line.

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, Professional Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia, says things have not changed materially with
him since last year, except that he has to work harder than
ever. He keeps in close touch with Washington and Lee, as
a member of the University Board of Trustees, and says this
is one of the pleasantest duties he has.

J. Wood Glass is practicing law as a member of the firm of
Glass and Chappell, Nowata, Oklahoma. His classmate Judge
M. A. Breckenridge of Tulsa, Oklahoma, made an extended
visit during the past winter, to his son who is living in Lex-
ington, and reports that Mr. Glass is one of the leading citi-
zens of the State of Oklahoma.

R. F. Cooper is Vice President and head of the Depart-
ment of Social Sciences at Belhaven College, Jackson, Missis-
sippi. From 1921 to 1939 he was President of Mississippi
Synodical College at Holly Springs, Mississippi. Since both
of these institutions were under the control of the Presby-
terian Church, they have been consolidated and Belhaven
College has been admitted to the Southern Association of
Secondary Schools and Colleges. They are now launching
an ambitious program for endowment and building funds.

John P. Wall is practicing law at 5414 Leary Avenue,
Seattle, Washington. He writes a poem to his Class Agent:

“I am glad to give a helping hand

To Washington and Lee and my fellow man;
My country with its freedom free

Has made so many gifts to me.

My evening of life adds much content,
The closing days count money unspent;
Love and kindness increase my joy,
Getting old, but happy as a boy.”

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Dr. Volney M. Brown has been practicing medicine in
Philadelphia for about forty years, the last thirty-five with
the Department of Public Safety as Surgeon and promises
if any of his class should meet with a mishap in Philadelphia
he will see that the cloak of the Department is wrapped
around him and that he is promptly taken care of.

Osman Swartz has been in Charleston, West Virginia,
since 1929 as General Counsel for the United Carbon Com-
pany.

1903

Robert T. Wallace is minister of the Monticello Presby-
terian Church, Monticello, Florida. He says he seems to grow
more interested in old Washington and Lee the older he gets,
and thinks it is because he has such a splendid class agent.

Clement Boaz, dealer in city property and farm lands in
Fort Worth, Texas, boasts of two grandsons who have
reached the ages of two and four, and says that “perspicacity
is already sticking out in both of them to a marked degree.”

1904

James B. Akers, on February 1, 1946, appointed chief en-
gineer of the Southern Railway System, was elected president
of the AREA as a part of that organization’s annual meeting
at Chicago. Mr. Akers joined the Southern Railway System
in September, 1904.

George Carrington Moseley is teaching history in the
Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Georgia.

Dr. W. Cole Davis has purchased the home which was
owned by the late Dr. William D. Hoyt, at No. 5 Lewis Street,
Lexington, Virginia, and will make his home in Lexington.
He served as Post Surgeon at V.M.I. during the war.

W. O. Wilson is President of the Davenport Insurance
Corporation of Richmond, Virginia. Recently he received the
Treasury award in recognition of his services as
Vice-Chairman of the Fifth and Sixth War
Bond Drives in Richmond.

(Notes by Class Agent, Dr. John Henry Day)

Edward C. Miller who became business man-
ager of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in
1922 found himself compelled by arthritis to
restrict his duties for a number of years prior
to his retirement at the end of June 1945. He
continues to make his home in Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia.

George E. Haw is still practicing law suc-
cessfully in Richmond, Virginia. His son,
George E. Haw, Jr., °44, volunteered in 1942
and after having served with the 14th Armored
Division was released from the armed forces
in October 1945. He will enter the Washington
and Lee Law School for the next term having
meanwhile studied at Hampden-Sydney.

George G. Worthen is Vice President of W.
B. Worthen Company, Bankers, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

Max M. Brown left the legal profession to be
President of the State Exchange Bank of Lake
City, Florida. This was twenty-five years ago

 

and he is still the active head of that bank. His daughter and
grand-daughter live in the same city.

E. W. Poindexter is a successful attorney with offices
in the Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

Lyle M. Moffett is carrying on a great work at McDowell.
Virginia. In addition to the duties of his pastorate of the
Church there he supervises the operation of four out-post
Sunday Schools and four or five summer Vacation Bible
Schools.

D. E. Tucker is at Tucker, Arkansas.

S. W. Schaefer, M.D., has his address at 178 East 70th
Street, New York 21, New York.

Robert L. Kolb is at 25

Maryland.

Kast Third Street, Frederick,

1905

W. E. MacClenny, 118 St. James Avenue, Suffolk, Virgin-
ila, writes that his hobby is history and genealogy and that
he has questions from the Northeast tip of Maine to the
Golden Gate, California. His occupation is accounting and
he has been in the banking and insurance business practical-
ly all of his life.

W. G. Riddick is Judge of the United States Court of Ap-
peals, Little Rock, Arkansas.

D. T. Moore is Business Manager of Greenbrier Military
School, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He has been reelected for
his seventh two year term on the Lewisburg Town Council
and is Moderator of the Greenbrier Presbytery. He has a
curly-headed granddaughter two and a half years old.

David A. Bradham, Attorney-at-Law, Warren, Arkansas,

is a candidate for the office of Chancellor in his district.
Harvey C. Crabill is still active in the practice of law as

he approaches his 74th birthday. He says he has never met an

+4

«

+

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

alumnus of Lee since leaving school, ex-

Washington and
cept Dean Moreland, on two visits to Lexington a few years
His home is in Monroeville, Indiana.

ago.

Haney B. Connor, 3648 North
Louisiana, writes;
Sophomores

soulevard, Baton Rouge,
“How well do I remember that when the
painted the wooden statue of ‘Old George,’
and dared a bunch of green freshmen to resent it, that I in-
sisted on being classed in the class of 1905 so I could help
carry the telephone pole that knocked down one of the doors
to the main building, and after struggling for a hour in the
attic we reached a truce whereby they agreed to let us put
the colors of 1905 on one-half of ‘Old George’.”’

J. Dexter Hobbie, Jr., is president of Hobbie Brothers
Music Company, Roanoke, Virginia. He is always interested
and helpful in Washington and Lee affairs.

John L. Daniel is head of the Department of Chemistry
at Georgia school of Technology. At the time his class letter
was written he and Mrs. Daniel were enjoying a two weeks

vacation in Florida, the first time he has been away from
his work since September 1941. He and Mrs. Daniel have
two daughters, the older one married to a Ph.D. from the

University of Virginia, who is a member of the Georgia Tech
Chemical Staff, and two grandchildren.

Dr. T. Dwight Sloan, after many years as a Medical
Missionary in China, and later Superintendent of the Flag-
ler Hospital, St. Augustine, Florida, is now retired and liv-

 

ing in Charlottesville, Virginia. He is always affection-
ately interested in Washington and Lee.

1906

Daniel W. Alexander is with the Geological Survey
in Washington, D.C. His son, William Howard Alex-
ander, graduated from Washington and Lee in 1935.
Home: 4707 Piney Branch Road, Washington, D.C.

F. T. Dotson is working in the Department of Plans
for the West Virginia State Road Commission, and
lives at 1543 East Washington Street, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Milton Herman lives in Danville, Virginia, and says

that he is “blessed with health, a good home and con-
tentment.” He sends his best regards to his classmates.

1907

A. R. (Dick) Larrick is Executive Secretary, Home
Missions Committee, St. Johns Presbytery, Plant City,
Florida.

David H. Hill is still with the Merritt, Chapman &
Scott Corporation. His home at 310 Edgefield
Avenue, Westfield, New Jersey.

1s

G. W. Keller is Secretary-Treasurer of the Hunt-
ington-Oklahoma Oil Company, oil and gas operators
and producers, Huntington, West Virginia.

Colonel Harry W. Miller, head of the Department of
Mechanism and Engineering Drawing at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, has written
many books and articles pertaining to engineering in
connection with war.

W. R. J. Dunn is still doing business under the firm
name of Dunn Construction Company, General Con-
tractors, Birmingham, Alabama.

Isaac P. Gassman, is still running the Arcade Manufac-
turing Company in Freeport, Illinois. His sons, Loyal P.,
35, and George L., 41, have received their discharge from
the service, and are now back at home.

1908

Roberts C. Milling is a member of the firm of Godchaux,
Saal and Milling, Attorneys at Law, Whitney Building, New
Orleans, Louisiana. He writes, “I appreciate the efforts of the
Alumni Association and am glad to help.”

Alonzo B. McMullen, Class Agent for 1908-Law, a

member of the law firm of McMullen & Draper, First Na-
tional Bank Building, Tampa, Florida.

1S

Philip P. Page, Vice-President and Business Manager of
the Chicago Journal of Commerce, was the guest speaker
at the weekly luncheon meeting of the Central Lions Club
on January 17, at the College Inn of the Hotel Sherman, his
topic being “What is the Business Outlook for 1946.”

(Notes by Class Agent, Alan P. Lee)

Horace W. (Rags) Phillips—our 1908-A leading class
agent lives at Hardeeville, South Carolina, through the win-
ter and at Asheville, North Carolina, during the summer. His
son is a First Lieutenant and was recently wounded in Ger-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

many, but is now well on the road to recovery. Rags (Jr.) is
a graduate of the Citadel, has been awarded the Bronze Star
medal, the Infantryman’s Combat Badge, and a Presidential
Unit citation. Rags (Sr.) writes, “I had to go to Kansas City
recently and enroute home had a good visit at Birmingham
with Perry Turner and Walter Hood.”

Dr. Robert R. Gray is pastor of Union and Salem Presby-
terian Churches at Union, West Virginia. He writes, “I am
still here where I have been for thirty years, laboring in one
little corner of the ‘Great Vineyard.’ The life is full and sat-
isfying.” Bob has two daughters, one married to a missionary
with whom she is sailing to the Belgian Congo for missionary
work. The other daughter is married to a Captain in the Field
Artillery, now in Germany.

Fred Bartenstein is in the engineering and construction
business at Warrenton, Virginia. He has quit being an orch-
ardist to return to his first love of engineering. One of his
sons is serving with the 9th Army in Germany. Bart writes,
“My principal hope now is that all the boys can come home

: ”
soon.

Earle K. Paxton is a professor of mathematics at Wash-
ington and Lee and has also been teaching at V.M.I. during
the past year. He will welcome visits to Lexington from his
old friends and classmates.

Donald P. Boyer is engaged in sales engineering in Rich-
mond. He writes, “I always enjoy sending my little contri-
bution to the Alumni Fund each year because it brings
back the tenderest memories of the days 1905-1908
when W & L, made a man out of a country boy.” His
only son, Donald, Jr., was reported missing in action
as of December 21, 1944, in the Ardennes battle, but
later turned up as a prisoner in Germany. All Don’s
classmates will be happy that he got his son back.

Grover Cleveland Gabriel is Superintendent of the
Central Pennsylvania Conference of the Evangelical
Church at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. He writes, “I am
still at my old job of preaching the Gospel and super-
vising the work of a District in the Central Pennsyl-
vania Conference of the Evangelical Church. In addi-
tion to myself, my family is composed of wife and five
children, two sons and three daughters. My boys are
both in the service. One is in the Navy and located
in Hawaii. The other is in the Army and is now locat-
ed in Washington, D.C. He has seen service in North
Africa, Sicily, Italy, India, and China. My youngest
daughter is a student in Bucknell University in the
town in which we live.”

Colonel Joseph M. Moore is Superintendent of Green-
brier Military School, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He
is listed in “Who’s Who in America” and carries on a
splendid work in educating youth, many of whom have
entered Washington and Lee upon graduation from
Greenbrier. Joe sends best wishes to the class and the
University.

A. W. Lybrand is engaged in engineering work with
the Government in Washington and lives at 1223

Masschusetts Avenue, S.E., Washington, D.C.

George M. Brandon lives at the Southland Hotel.
Dallas, Texas.

Perry W. Turner continues in the practice of law at

 

Birmingham, Alabama, that stronghold of Washington and
Lee Lawyers.

Reverend William P. Hooper, D.D., is minister of High-
lawn Presbyterian Church, Huntington, West Virginia, where
he has been for twenty-six years and also teaches Bible
history in Marshall College at Huntington. The degree of
Doctor of Divinity was conferred on him by Davis & Elkins
College last year. He has one daughter and one grandson.

Luther Duke Harper lives at 700 Sycamore Street, Rocky
Mount, North Carolina.

Ralph A. Dodd is practicing dentistry at Chase City, Vir-
ginia. He sends regards to the Class of 1908 and particularly
Rags Phillips, who Dodd says never fails to extract a con-
tribution to the Alumni Fund.

Commander Joseph P. Norfleet, U.S.N., has been active
in the Delaware Division of the Eastern Sea Frontier, United
States Navy. Recently he was in command of the receiving
force when several German submarines came into the Dela-
ware capes to surrender. Joe writes, “My aspiration is to
really retire to a farm in eastern Carolina when the Navy
lets me out.” Joe has a married daughter whose husband, of
the Marine Corps, is now in the South Pacific, and a younger
daughter attending Swarthmore College. He writes further,
“The Naval Academy is my leading Alma Mater, but Wash-
ington and Lee will always hold its place of affection in my
heart.”

SE

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

  
 

Us

fa)

 
 

Dozier A. Devane, United States Judge, Orlando, Florida,

and his wife entertained Dr. and Mrs. Desha in Orlando on
a recent trip to Florida when Dr. Desha addressed alumni
meetings in Jacksonville, Miami and Tampa, and drove them
to Tampa where they attended the alumni meeting there.

1909

L. J. Boxley, Boxley Building, Roanoke, Virginia, is ac-
tive in the crushed stone industry, operating four plants in
Virginia and one in Kentucky. His farm takes much of his
time, and he is gradually turning over his other interests to
the younger members of his family. His two sons and two
sons-in-law have been in the Army, one son and one son-in-
law still in uniform.

Sam M. Engelhardt, Class Agent for 1909, is Treasurer of
the City of Montgomery, Alabama, busy with committee work
for Rotary International, serving on the Tire Rationing Board
and is Purchasing Agent for the Red Cross. He says he is
still interested in the real estate and insurance business, al-
though his partner does practically all the work.

K. W. Denman is a member of the firm of Mantooth &
Denman, Lufkin National Bank Building, Lufkin, Texas. He
says he has been practicing law as usual and keeping alive the
memory of Washington and Lee.

Carl Hinton has been Postmaster at Hinton, West Vir-
ginia for the past eleven years.

Morton L. Lazarus lives at 941 Brooks Lane, Baltimore.
Maryland. He reports that he has three married daughters
and two grandchildren. He says that for an old man he is
holding on very well, that he has most of his teeth, plenty of
gray hair and so far does not need crutches.

Guyte P. McCord is Clerk of the Supreme Court of Flor-
ida and lives in Tallahassee. He writes of just having seen
John Lykes for the first time in 35 years.

  

Beirne Stedman, Class Agent for 1909-Law,
in an Associate Editor with the Michie Com-
pany, Publishers of Law Books, Charlottesville,
Virginia.

L. T. Wilson is Dean of the Department of
Mathematics at the United States Naval Acad-
cmy at Annapolis.

C. T. Dawkins, General Contractor, Tampa,
Piorida, was closely connected with Air Forces
and Signal Corps construction in Florida, but
is doing some power plant and housing work
now that the war is over.

1910

Meinhard H. (Monty) Myerson is practicing
law in the Professional Building, Jacksonville,
Florida. He is still unmarried and lives at the
Seminole Hotel.

Chartes I. Dwiggins is in the citrus fruit
business in “Imperial Polk County,” Florida.
His address is Lake Gibson, Lakeland, Florida.

1911

Harvcy C. Eley is with the Socony-Vacuum
Oil Company, Incorporated, 26 Broadway, New
New York 4, New York.

L. L. Humphreys is president of the Security National
Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma.

M. E. Kurth is a member of the firm of Andrews, Kelley,
Kurth Campbell, Attorneys, Gulf Building, Houston,

‘Texas.

and

W. A. Reid is Cashier of the First National Bank of Trout-
ville, Virginia. He is also a farmer and orchardist, so he leads
a busy life. His two children, both girls, are in college at
Agnes Scott, Decatur, Georgia.

Herbert B. Gregory, Judge of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia, and Mrs. Gregory had a month’s vacation
in Florida in December. Their two sons have now been dis-
charged from the service, and a daughter is a Red Cross
worker at the Woodrow Wilson Hospital in Staunton, Vir-
ginia. He says that after this year the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia will probably sit in Richmond as the
Staunton and Wytheville sessions are being eliminated.

Luther G. Scott is city attorney for Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia, and says one can hardly imagine the number and var-
iety of things he is called upon to do, particularly when as-
sociated with an active, wide-awake city manager. His law
offices are in the Commercial Bank Building. He is serving
again this year as Class Agent for 191l-Law.

Omer T. Kaylor, Acting Secretary for the Law Class of
1911, is the editor of the 1946 Annual, which has just been
distributed. Each year since graduation this publication has
appeared, carrying interesting letters from practically all
members of the class. This “Victory Number” is unusually
attractive both in its make-up and the splendid collection of
letters. The Class will hold its 35th anniversary reunion in
Lexington on May 31, Alumni Day of Finals. Mr. Kaylor’s
son, Omer Thomas, Jr., now a Lieutenant (j.g.) has recently
returned from overseas and had a leave of absence with his

| 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

family. He is the supply officer on Don O. Woods A.P.D.,
and hopes to be discharged this summer. A younger
Howard, is in the Navy Air Combat Service. Mr. Kaylor is
still engaged in the general practice of law and still takes an
active interest in his Church, Y.M.C.A., and local hospital
work.

Son,

Donald T. Stant is practicing law in the Reynolds Arcade
Bristol, Tennessee- Virginia. He is a member of the House of
Delegates.

George Chaney is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia,
with offices in the Colonial-American National Bank Building.
His two older boys are both out of the service, George, Jr.,
"40, overseas for forty-two-moriths, and Jerry, for two years.

F. B. Richardson has been in the active practice of real
estate title law since 1931. In addition to his practice he has
been connected with the Virginia Building and Loan Com-
pany, and president of this company since 1939. His daugh-
ter graduated at Bryn Mawr in 1941, and will receive her
M.A. this year. He sends his greetings to all members of the

1911 Law Class.

Robert A. Russell is practicing law in Rustburg, Virgin-
ia, “Offices between Courthouse and Bank.” He says; “The
past year has made me extremely busy with ‘chicken feed,’
cases, from which I have fattened to 236 pounds and have
gone back to 200 pounds.”

1912

Dr. Joseph Minor Holloway is practicing medicine in
Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Robert R. Blake has been traveling for Oscar Mayer and
Company of Madison, Wisconsin, in North Carolina for the
past ten years. He sends his best regards to the members of
the Class of 1912.

a _

Reverend Frank—-R. Ruff has been preaching at Old Fort,
North Carolina for the past five years, but has
recently accepted a pastorate at Cleveland,
North Carolina.

James O. Day went to Washington on Jan-
uary 1, 1945, as Counsel for the Senate Com-
mittee on the District of Columbia, and is still
on that job. He has served as State Senator,
27th District of Mississippi, 1928 to 1932; Judge
of the Circuit Court, Northern District of Mis-
sissippi, 1938 to 1942; United States District
Attorney, Northern District, 1942 to 1945. His
home is in Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Russell B. Wine is still practicing law with
offices in the National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing, San Antonio, Texas. He says half of his
time is spent in prosecuting felony criminal
cases for the Criminal District Attorney.

Wayne Ely, continues to practice law in the
Commerce Building, St. Louis, Missouri. He
says he has had his nose to the grindstone for
a long time but now that the youngsters are re-
turning from the war he intends to let them do
most of the work, while he tries to catch up on
his fishing.

Freeman H. Hart, for many years professor
of History at Hampden-Sydney, is now Exec-

utive Secretary of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, 771 Spring
Street, Atlanta, Georgia. He has written extensively along
historical lines, contributed to the Dictionary of American
Biography, and to many magazines, his latest work being
“The Valley of Virginia in the American Revolution.”

Joe Blackburn Watts has retired from public office and is
now the senior member of the law firm of Watts, Poffen-
barger and Bowles, Chamber of Commerce Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia. He was Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Kanawha County for a number of years and was recently
a candidate for Governor.

1913

Thomas F. Walker is Judge of the Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court, Wytheville, Virginia.

Kyle M. Weeks is a member of the law firm of Proffit and
Weeks, Floyd, Virginia, which was formed February 16,
1916. He was married a few years ago to Miss Wilma Cox.

Henry Wise Kelly is a member of the firm of Bowen &
Kelly, Potomac Electric Power Company Building, Wash-
ington, D.C. His son, Henry Wise Kelly, Jr., is a student in
the Law School this year.

Judge S. W. Maytubby, Jjr., 1712 N.W. 38th Street, Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma, says he has nothing new to add to
his last class letter, but also says; “I always enjoy looking at
the familiar names in the Alumni Magazine and they always
bring back happy memories.”

Howard L. Robinson is a member of the law firm of Rob-
inson and Stump, Union National Bank Building, Clarksburg,
West Virginia. His partner, John Stump is an LL.B. of the
class of 1924. Practicing law and farming, with help shortage,
keeps him busy.

S. C. Rose is still carrying on in the same way at “Rose-
lands,” his country place near West Point, Mississippi, ex-

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

cept that he has added beef cattle and a dairy. He has also
taken on some real estate interests in West Point.

Leonard N. Coffey is Minister, Northside Christian
Church, Cincinnati, Ohio. He has been busy in social and
recreational work in addition to his busy pastorate, and spend-
ing over 5000 hours in personnel work in war plants. He has a
son, Jack, who had his own successful orchestra, before en-
tering the service, and a daughter, Mrs. Lester Robb, and
two grandchildren.

1914

Merriman S. Smith is in the insurance business in Blue-
field, West Virginia. He says he is now in the Grandfather
class.

(Notes by Henry N. Barker, Class Agent)

Sam Laughlin, Jr., is President of Wheeling Tile Com-
pany, Wheeling, West Virginia. Sam is looking forward to
sending his three sons to Washington and Lee.

Thomas F. Ogilvie is an Attorney at Law, with offices at
1200 Atlantic Avenue, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Dr. Buford Burks has been practicing dentistry at Crew,
Virginia since 1923, with offices at present in the First
National Bank Building.

Dr. Roy B. McKnight is practicing medicine, with offices
in the Professional Building, Charlotte, North Carolina. Af-
ter leaving Washington and Lee he attended the University of
North Carolina where he received his A.B. and M.D. He
was later a member of the faculty in the School of Medicine
there. In spite of his Carolina connection he is still a loyal
alumnus of W&L, and hopes to return to a class reunion
sometime.

1915

James E. Bear is Professor of New Testament at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. He is also
Registrar for the Seminary. He has four children, two daugh-
ters at Agnes Scott College, and a son, eight, and daughter,
five, at home. Address: 1007 Melrose Avenue, Richmond 22,
Virginia.

Charles M. Switzer has recently been promoted to Assis-
tant Manager of the Nylon Division of the DuPont Com-
pany, Wilmington, Delaware. Address: 2404 Nemours Build-
ing, Wilmington, Delaware.

Dr. S. E. Oglesby is practicing Obstetrics and Gynecology
in Lynchburg, Virginia. He expects to be in Lexington for
Alumni Day and hopes to meet some of his old friends.

Arthur M. Birdsall, Attorney-at-Law, Belmar, New Jer-
sey, writes that he has recently read Thomas Nelson Page’s
“Robert E. Lee, Soldier and Statesman.” He thinks it is a
fascinating book and says it stirs within him, a northerner,
a tremendous respect and love for such a noble character.
He reminds us that the portrayal of the use of radar from
Camp Evans, in making contact with the moon, took place
near Belmar. Camp Evans is a branch of Fort Monmouth
which is located about 8 miles from Belmar, and this area
is the very center of the Signal Corps of the U.S.

Kenelm L. Shirk and his son Kenelm L,., Jr., have re-
turned from the service, Ken, Sr., ending his military career,
after three years, as a Lieutenant-Colonel, and Ken, Jr., as a
First Lieutenant. Ken, Sr., is again practicing law at 33 North
Duke Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania,

1916

R. Hugh Jarvis has a connection with Freeport Coal
Company, Morgantown, West Virginia, and has displayed a
loyal interest in Washington and Lee.

Dr. Henry M. Rowan has been successful in the practice
of medicine in Trenton, New Jersey. After graduating with
the A.B. degree from Washington and Lee he annexed a
M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania School of Med-
icine. Home: 224 West State Street, Trenton, New Jersey.

Dr. David Hyatt, after graduating from Washington and
Lee, obtained his M.D. degree at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity School of Medicine in 1920, and has since then practiced
in Litthe Rock, Arkansas, specializing in internal medicine.

D. Easley Waggoner is Vice President and General Man-
ager of the United Fidelity Life Insurance Company, Dallas,
Texas. He has been so far away from the University that his
contacts have been few, but his memories of his classmates
are still warm.

Judge Clarence J. Brown, Congressman, 7th District,
Ohio, says: “There isn’t much to report except that [ am
still a Republican, still in Congress, and still a newspaper
publisher. The biggest thing that has happened in my life
recently was the arrival of twin red headed grandsons, born
to our daughter, Dorothy and her husband, Robert A. Haines,
on February 5, 1945. They are identical and husky.”

F. Stanley Porter has been connected with the office of
Alien Property Custodian in Washington, since 1942, and
spends much of his time in that city. He still lives in Balti-
more and commutes. He is Chief of the Field Unit of the Es-
tates and Trust Division.

J. R. Manning is President of the National Loan and In-
surance Company, Inc., Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.
Immediately after getting out of the army in 1918 he went
into the general insurance business in Roanoke Rapids and
since that time has been so occupied. He was married in
December 1934 and has a young son five years old, who in
all probability will be thinking about entering Washington
and Lee in 1958.

Horner Fisher has returned to his law office, Fisher &
Hamner, in West Palm Beach, Florida. Serving as a First
Lieutenant in World War I, he returned to Army Service
for a short time in World War II. After graduating from
Washington and Lee with Phi Beta Kappa honors, he
taught English at Washington and Lee for awhile, and later
took graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania and
Harvard.

Andrew Wendell Mann has been practicing law in Ash-
land, Kentucky. He has served a six-year term as City Prose-
cutor and is now serving as City Solicitor. He says: “I have
every faith in the loyalty, devotion and militant activity on
the part of the Washington and Lee alumni in general.

Vivian Page is a member of the law firm of Page, Page &
Page, Norfolk, Virginia. He served twenty years in the Leg-
islature of Virginia, in both the House and the Senate. He
says that politics is in his blood and he is like an old fire
horse, ready to run whenever he smells smoke.

Lieutenant Colonel N. C. Evans (Chick), is still in
uniform, War Department Army Central Welfare Fund,
Washington, D.C. He has been a frequent visitor to Lex-
ington since the School for Personnel Services has been lo-

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

cated at Washington and Lee, as he has been attached to
the Special Service Division.

Edmund Magers settled in Atlanta, Georgia after having
served in World War I. He has been with the State of
Georgia since 1922 in accounting and auditing of departments
and institutions. He is a Certified Public Accountant. He is
married and living at 1468 Emory Road, Atlanta. He sug-
gests a thirtieth anniversary reunion of his class in June 1946.

1916

G. S. Watson, Attorney-at-Law, Port Gibson, Mississippi,
has taken up flying and recently acquired CAA license as
Private Pilot, and does some acrobatics. He is still a bach-
elor (in view of the acrobatics, probably just as well), and
is practicing law in his home town.

J. E. (Josh) Buckley is practicing law in Marlinton, West
Virginia.

Lycurgus Hyre says he realizes that he and his class are
well advanced in years but have gained a wide range of ex-
perience in many matters of life, some good, some bad, but
that back at Washington and Lee they got a sure and solid
foundation on which to stand after departing from “the most
hallowed spot in the world.” He is practicing law in Buck-
hannon, West Virginia.

’ Thomas A. Myles has been practicing law in Fayetteville
West Virginia, since 1917. In the past he has served as As-
sistant Prosecuting Attorney and Divorce Commissioner,
and as Mayor of Fayetteville for the past five years and now
as Commissioner of Accounts, Commissioner in Chancery,
U.S. Commissioner Southern District of West Virginia. He
is married and has three children, Thomas E., Betty Jane,
and John T.

1917

William H. F. Lamont is Professor of English at Rutgers
University. He was married in 1932 to Hettie Slack Moore
and they have one son, James Wallace Lamont, born in 1934.
Address: 62 South Adelaide Avenue, New Brunswick, New
Jersey.

J. L. (Luke) Williams is still with The Bristol Company,
Waterbury, Connecticut. He has two sons growing up and
hopes they will decide on Washington and Lee for their
college training. He would like to have a thirtieth reunion

in 1947.

Marion D. (Bébe) Williamson operates M. D. William-
son, Foreign and Domestic Veneers at Cockeysville, Mary-
land.

Edward L. Hix, 922 McKinley Avenue, Niagara Falls,
New York, says he often thinks of the boys of ‘17, and al-
ways looks forward to reading of their doings in the Alumni
Magazine.

Emory P. Barrow is practicing law in Lawrenceville, Vir-
ginia, where he has been since World War I. He has been a
member of the Virginia State Highway Commission for two
years which involves a considerable amount of travel around
the state.

1919
W. Roy Campbell is with Hans Watts Realty Company,

Huntington, West Virginia. He has three children, a boy 12,
a girl 8 and a little boy 3. He says nothing would make him

happier than for his boys to want to go to Washington and
Lee when they reach that age.

1920

Robert E. Baumgardner is with the Maryland Inspection
and Regulating Services, College Park, Maryland.

Emmett W. Poindexter, B.A. ’20, LL.B. ’23, has on Feb-
ruary 1, 1946, become a partner in the law firm of Riggs,
Ferris, Geer & Mygatt, Attorneys-at-Law, 120 Broadway,
New York 5, New York.

Colonel Willis M. Everett is still on active duty with the
U.S. Army, since September 1, 1940. He is now in Germany
in International Advisory work, where he will be until March
1948. His home is in Atlanta, Georgia.

Sydney G. White is in the dry goods business under the
name of White Brothers, in Waynesboro, Virginia. He is the
head of the Waynesboro alumni group.

Harold G. Robertson is President of the Liberty Trust
Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. His oldest boy graduated from high
school last year.

1921

James H. (Gander) Byron is appraising real estate with
Birmingham Federal Savings and Loan Company, Birming-
ham, Alabama. He married Louise Mever and they have two
daughters, Margaret, age 14, and Ellen, born December 25,
1945.

C. G. Gordon Moss has been teaching history at Farmville
State Teachers College since 1944. Prior to that time, he was
for twelve years in similar work at Mary Washington Col-
lege, Fredericksburg, Virginia. He married Laura Anderson
and they have two children, C. G. Gordon, Jr., age 8, and Vir-
ginia, 5.

William J. Rushton served during the war as Colonel of
Ordnance, Army of the United States. He is married and has
two sons. Address: Protective Life Insurance Company,
Birmingham, Alabama.

Dr. Charles A. Haney is with the Masonic Service Asso-
ciation of the United States, 700 Tenth Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

J. Hoge T. Sutherland, Liberty Academy, Bedford, Vir-
ginia, has been in school work almost continuously since
leaving Washington and Lee in 1921. He was division super-
intendent of Dickenson County for two years, and has been
director of instruction in Bedford County for two years. His
two children, twins, Maribel and Hoge Tyler, are juniors in
the local high school.

Edward L. Westbrook, Jr., received his J.D. degree from
Northwestern, was married in 1928, and is now Chancellor
of the Twelfth Chancery Circuit, Jonesboro, Arkansas.

1922

Reverend J. Lindsay Patton, D.D., formerly Rector, St
Marks Church, Berkeley, California, is now Rector, Grace
Church, Colorado Springs, Colorado.

Dr. Andrew E. Amick, 510 Medical Arts Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia, is president of the West Virginia State
Medical Association.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

W. A. Williams, Jr., returned to this country in Decem-
ber from duty with the Navy in the Philippines, where he

Jattalion.
Richmond,

Naval Construction
R.F.D. No. 9,

Commander of the 10th
German School Road,

was
Address:
Virginia.

1923

George C. Mason, Class Agent for °’23, is President of

Gem-Dandy, Inc., manufacturers of men’s suspenders, ties,

belts, braces, and garters, factory at Madison, North Caro-
lina, of which J. Vaughn Penn, ’23 is Vice-President. George
lives in Madison, North Carolina, and Vaughn at 13 Rock-
well Road, Larchmont, N.Y., and is in charge of the New
York office of his firm.

Everctt W. Cummings is in the milling business, Pilot
Mills, Kernersville, North Carolina, but lives at 1738 Virgin-
ia Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

George E. (Ted) Harris is still writing plays, novels, and
scenarios at The Belfry, Atlantic Beach, North Carolina. His
address: Box 14, Greenville, North Carolina.

Lee Hampton Benton, since his discharge from the Navy,
has been Community Music Director for Schoolfield, Virgin-
ia. He has two bands and three Glee Clubs.

G. Herbert Smith, after graduating with the B.S. degree
at Washington and Lee, was in the insurance business in
Wilmington, N.C., for eight years. In 1931 he was transferred
to Charlotte, N.C., as Special Agent for the “Home Group”
and later became associated with the McDonald Insurance
Agency there. For the past 22 months he has been an insur-
ance analyist or consultant representing Insurance Audit and
Inspection Co. His territory now includes Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and East Tennessee. He married
Virginia Cowles Isley from Hampton, Virginia, and has a

|

?

—_—

step-daughter age 19. Address: 308 Hempstead
place Charlotte, North Carolina.

O. W. McClintock and his wife were recent
visitors to the campus to see their oldest son
O.W., Jr., now released from the Army, and
back at school here. His youngest son is in the
Navy, now hospitalized in California. He is
Secretary-Treasurer of W. S. McClintock &
Sons Co., general merchants and cotton buy-
ers, Marianna, Arkansas.

Frank L. Wall is connected with Ayerst, Mc-
Kenna & Harrison, Biological and Pharmaceu-
tical Chemists of Rouses Point, New York.
He was married in 1927 and has two daughters
744 and 5% years old. Address: 4116 Stanhope,
Dallas, Texas.

W. W. (Bill) Lynn, yi is proprietor of Hotel
Carroll, Lynchburg, Virginia. He was married
in 1930 to Katie Mitchell and they have two
children, a boy, ten and a girl, three.

Augustine C. Bryan works out of Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee with the Provident Life and
Accident Insurance Company as Supervisor of
Mortgage Loan Department. He is married and
has a son six and a half and a daughter three
half. Address: 124 South Hermitage

Lookout Mountain, Tennessee.

and a
Avenue,

Colonel Jacob B. Greiner, Jr., has recently received a ci-
tation for the Legion of Merit, for outstanding performance
of his duties as Chief of Requirements Section, Supply Branch
and later as Deputy Chief of Procurement Supervision
Branch, Air Ordnance Office, Headquarters, Army Air
Forces, from March 1943 to June 1945.

G. E. Berson is with the Berry Dry Goods Company, Fort
Smith, Arkansas. He regrets that he seldom comes in con-
tact with members of his class at Washington and Lee.

F. Lyle Sattes is still with the Belle-Alkali Company,
manufacturers of heavy chemicals. The plant is at Belle,
West Virginia, but he lives in Charleston and commutes
daily. In 1932 he married Katherine Backus of Montgomery,
West Virginia, and they have four children, three girls and
a boy, ranging from the ages of thirteen to two. He notes
that his Class Agent has a daughter fifteen and suggests that
he also is acquainted with the junior-high flightiness, “which
of course is quite different from what it was in our junior
high days.”

Thomas Jean Ellis, after graduation, entered a law office
in St. Louis, and took his law degree at Washington. Uni-
versity in 1925. He moved to Florida early in 1926 where he
has since practiced law mostly in Miami and Tallahassee.
He has three sons, almost grown. He recently resumed the
practice of law after three years in the army with the Air
Transport Command.

O. Forrest McGill in April 1939, became manager of the
Mortgage Loan Department of the Prudential Insurance
Company in Lakeland, Florida, and remained there until
March 1 of this year when he was transferred to take over
the Managership of the New York Office, the largest of
twenty-one City Loan Branch Offices. He married and
has a fourteen-year old daughter, and lives at 160 Prospect
Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

is

J. W. McDonald and his brother formed an appliance dis-

5 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tributorship several years ago in Memphis, Tennessee, under
the firm name of McDonald Brothers, 963 Union Avenue,
Memphis. He reports a satisfactory increase in volume ot
business since the cessation of hostilities.

D. Raymond (Toad) Snively, since 1923, lived and worked
in New York for two years, then became associated with
the Hagerstown Leather Company, located in his home
town, Hagerstown, Maryland. His interests are his family,
including his wife (Valinda Mason) has daughter, and now
his grandson; the factory where they manufacture leather
goods; and his farm where he lives and raises Guernsey cat-
tle and Hampshire sheep. He reports that he is healthy and
happy and still believes that the best way to live is to love,
laugh and work.

1924

John E. Wells is owner and operator of Wells Furniture
Manufacturing Company, Laurel, Mississippi. He has been
married twenty years and has a daughter, Edith, 17 years
old, and a son 16, who will soon be ready for college.

Moses Ehrenworth is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia.
He is Commissioner in Chancery. Office address: 426 Dickson
Building.

David Pointer is President and Cashier of the State Bank
of Como, Como, Mississippi. After leaving school he started
work for the Federal Reserve Bank in Memphis, going back
to his home in Como, Mississippi where he has been in the
State Bank for twenty-one years. He is married and has a
daughter and two sons.

Harris A. Ray has been in the securities business in San
Francisco, California, off and on since 1928. Has a summer
cabin in the Sierras about 150 miles from San Francisco
where he and his wife spend most of their time from May to
October each year. Address: 1801 Broadway, San Francisco,
California.

Reverend Tucker G. Humphries is Pastor of
the Church of Wide Fellowship, “A Congrega-
tional community church transcending denom-
inational lines; serving many backgrounds in
true Christian fellowship,” Southern Pines,
North Carolina. He is married and has a six
year old daughter. They have been in Southern
Pines a little over two years.

Dr. John T. Collins, Optometrist, has recent-
ly moved from Charleston, West Virginia to
Lewisburg, West Virginia, where he is prac-
ticing his profession. He is married and has
two daughters, fourteen and fifteen years old.

1925

A. A'do Charles, who teaches Economics at
Mary Washington College of the University of
Virginia, has taken on added duties of Direc-
tor of Admissions. He writes that he has one
boy, six, who is headed for Washington and
Lee, and a daughter, 16 months, who is on the
waiting list at Mary Washington for 1962. He
has recently had published a college text in
Commercial Law, and it has now been adopted
by more schools than any other college text.

 

Thecdore M. Simmons was discharged from the Army
July 13, 1945 with the rank of Major, Office of Strategic Ser-
vices. He served for twelve months overseas in the E.T.O.
He has now returned to the Insurance business and is an as-
sociate of W. H. Markham & Co., St. Louis, Missouri. Ad-
dress: 4499 Lindell Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri.

Buck Baugher, member of the law firm of Williamson,
Gunster & Baugher, aside from curing the legal ills in Palm
Seach, Florida, specializes in hunting and fishing.

Sam Bucholtz is practicing law in Jacksonville, Florida,
with offices in the Mutual Life Building. He says one of his
fondest hopes, since leaving school has been to return to the
campus for a visit, but he has never gotten around to it. We
hope he will fulfill that desire before long.

1926

P. M. Schuchart has been released from the Army and
has accepted a position with the Virginia Telephone and Tel-
egraph Company as Traffic Manager with headquarters in
Charlottesville.

Earl Valentine went with OPA in 1943 and is now Chief
Enforcement Attorney for Virginia, Richmond, Virginia. He
hopes he will soon be back in the private practice of law in
Lexington.

1927

Graham Lytle has been buying and remodeling homes in
the old Georgetown part of Washington, selling some and
keeping others, for the past seven years. Address: 1416 30th
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

W. E. Gage is in the cotton business; cotton farming, cot-
tonseed oil extraction, and manufacturers’ agent. Address:
510 Commerce Title

Suilding, Memphis, Tennessee.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John Garber has been running the A. J. Beford Shoe Fac-
tory in Lititz, Pennsylvania for the past six years. He mar-
ried a Canadian and they have two sons, John Kirkpatrick, 12,
and Donald Graham, 9.

Luther H. Redcay is still Director of Snyder County
Board of Assistance in Pennsylvania’s unified public assis-
tance program. He and his wife and two children, Elizabeth,
14, and Helen, 12, “live along the Susquehanna River.” Home:
Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania.

Carl H. Magrill is working in the Accounting Department
of the Pocahontas Fuel Company, Pocahontas, Virginia. He
was in the Army for four months but received a medical dis-
charge.

Roy Nichols has a large class of voice pupils in addition
to his school work. He has one of the largest collections of
roses in the state in his garden, with 1200 shrub and tree
roses of 230 varieties; over 100 camelias and about 250 azal-
eas and many other shrubs and trees. He expects to make a
trip to Lexington before long. Home: 1500 Cedar Lane, Nor-
folk 8, Virginia.

Judge Tommy Graves, Cuero, Texas, Class Agent, °27-L,
went into private practice four years ago and now has his
own firm, Graves and Bell, and our reports are that business
is very prosperous.

Charles Welles Little is practicing law in Hagerstown
Maryland and is attorney for the county commissioners of
Washington County. Welles has a charming wife and doesn't
look much older than when they left Lexington.

George Maynard is practicing law in Clarksdale, Missis-
sippi with his brother Billy, whom we all remember, under
his firm name of Maynard, FitzGerald & Maynard. We see
both George and Billy occasionally and their younger brother,
Fletcher is in the Navy. George has three children, a boy
age 14 and two girls, ages 11 and 4. George is another one of
our class members who is aging gracefully.

1928

Howard Tayloe served in the AAF for over three years,
over two years at Patterson Field and returned to civilian
life after attaining the rank of Major. He was married in 1941
to Nancy Bond of Jackson, Tennessee, graduate of Randolph
Macon. They have a two and a half year old daughter. Ad-
dress: care of Tayloe Paper Company, Memphis, Tennessee.

T. B. Bryant, Class Agent for ’28-Law, still practices law
in Orangeburg, South Carolina, but spends much of his time
in attendance on the State Legislature, trying to regulate
the liquor business in South Carolina. He is married and
has two sons, one 8 and the other 4.

1929

J. M. Shackelford, who served as Lieutenant Colonel,
Ordnance Department, has received his discharge and is now
connected with the Planning Department, Johns-Manville
Company, in their New York office.

William C. Watson, Lieutenant Commander, has received
his discharge from the Navy and is reporting to his old job
with Standard Vacuum Oil Company in the near future and
expects to be sent back to China early in June.

Campbell C. Hutchinson, Jr., is operating his own gener-
al insurance business in Shreveport, Louisiana. He says his

golf game has suffered since the beginning of the duck sea-
son. He is married and has a son “Hutch, III,” nine, and a
daughter, Ann, thirteen. Address: 736 Elmwood, Shreveport,
Louisiana.

S. J. Thompson has been practicing law in Rustburg, Vir-
ginia, since graduation. Since 1936 has been Commonwealth’s
Attorney. He is married and has four children.

Philip R. Becker is a member of the Law firm of Coolidge,
Becker & Wall, Calahan Building, Dayton 2, Ohio. He says
he has only seen one of his classmates since leaving college.

1930

F. L. Shipman has recently been released to inactive duty
by the Navy, having served for two years, with the rank of
Lieutenant. He has returned to his home town and is again
practicing law with his firm of Shipman & Shipman, Attor-
neys, Troy, Ohio.

I. Derrell Felder, Jr., 1206 Mansfield Avenue, N.E., At-
lanta, Georgia, was, during the war, employed in the De-
partment of Industrial Relations (Personnel) at Bell Air-
craft Corporation of Marietta, Georgia. Since that time he
has been connected with the Federal Public Housing Author-
ity in the Regional Office in Atlanta as Management Training
Advisor.

J. A. Painter is Faculty Manager for the Lock Haven High
School, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, Winter Sports Schedules
for 1945-1940.

Howerton Gowen is General Manager of the Howerton
Gowen Company, industrial and agricultural chemists, of
Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.

Jim Hess is still with the Union Carbide and Carbon
Corporation, now working in New York on a “war trans-
fer,” but hopes to be sent back to one of the operating plants
before long. His address is 84-30 Abindon Road, Kew Gar-
dens 15, New York.

I. L. Flory, Jr., is still in the soft drink business at Elk-
ton, Virginia. He is married and has two girls and two boys,
all in school.

Tom Shumate is a member of the law firm of Shumate
and Shumate, Irvine, Kentucky. He says he has three child-
ren but all of his boys are girls, so the enrollment at W & lL
insofar as he is immediately concerned, will have to lie fallow
until his grandsons apply for entrance.

Morton E. Padgett, Jr., is still practicing law in Bedford,
Virginia. He and John Buford Oliver, LL.B., ’30, have been
partners since January 8, 1931.

1931

John Charles Smith, Class Agent for '3l-Law, is Vice-
President of the Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois.

James B. Martin is a member of the firm of DeHardit and
Martin, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, Gloucester, Vir-
ginia.

Horace Gooch is with Worcester Moulded Plastics Com-
pany, 14 Hygeia Street, Worcester, Massachusetts.

Walter E. (“Beef”) Hoffman is a member of the law firm
of Breeden & Hoffman, National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia.

[ 30 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Robert B. Fangboner owns a chain of country grain ele-
vators and coal vards. He has been married seven years and
has two daughters, age six and three. Address: 1033 Hayes

Avenue, Fremont, Ohio.

Herbert O. Winston is a machine designer for the Elastic
Stop Nut Corporation, and has his own business; Freeman &
Winston, Civil Engineers and Land Surveyors. Home: 54
Shadylawn Drive, Madison, New Jersey.

Binford E. Parker, Jr., is manager of the Parker Peanut
Company, Suffolk, Virginia.

James Lee Lytle, Jr., is in the real estate and insurance
business in San Antonio, Texas. He is married and has a
blond and blue-eyed daughter Linda Jean. Home address:
341 West Summit Street, San Antonio, Texas.

Eugene Johnson is still associated with the DuPont Com-
pany at Waynesboro, Virginia. Home: 816 14th Street,

Waynesboro, Virginia.

Leonard Glover is now back with the Lynchburg Engrav-
ing Company, Lynchburg, Virginia, “after a brief tour with
Uncle Sam’s Air Forces.”

William Tayloe Munford was recently appointed Direc-
tor of Promotions and Publicity for Thalhimer’s Department
Store, Richmond, Virginia. He is married and has two
daughters.

1932

Charles E. Long, Jr., is serving as Counsel for the “Com-
mittee on the Judiciary,” House of Representatives in Wash-
ington, D.C., after being separated from the Navy on Octo-
ber 16, 1945. At the time of separation he was a Lieutenant,
U.S.N.R., having gone on active duty September 10, 1942,
and having served in the Pacific, the last eighteen months
being spent aboard a fleet tanker. He is married and has a
son two and a half years old. Before entering the Navy he
practiced law in Dallas, Texas. Address: 3716 Stratford,
Dallas 5, Texas.

Jack G. Marks was a recent visitor to the Alumni Office.
He has been discharged with the rank of Lieutenant Com-
mander, after four and one half years service with the United
States Coast Guard Reserve. Three and one half years of
this time was spent overseas. While in Australia, Jack mar-
ried Miss Patricia Boyle at Perth, W.A., on February 206,
1945. Jack is now back with his law firm of Marks and Marks
at 521 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, New York.

Kenneth (“Big Island’) Routon is a Special Agent of the
FBI and has been stationed in New York since Pearl Har-
bor. He says he has met a lot of Washington and Lee men
both in and out of his profession. He is married and has a
small daughter. His home is at Huntington, Long Island,
New York.

Woodson Gillock is Supervisor of Spinning Control for
the DuPont Acetate Rayon Plant in Waynesboro, Virginia.
He says he has a husky son, four years old, who is a candi-
date for a future Washington and Lee football team.

Frank Cunningham, now living at 431 Georgina Avenue,
Santa Monica, California, says he is still in the same line of
journalistic endeavor. His book “Sky Master” the story of
Donald Douglas, received the recommendation of the Book
of the Month Club and won the Manuscripts Club award of
the year as the “most outstanding biography of 1944.” He is

working on a new book with a railroad background which
he hopes will be published in 1946.

Bev D. Smith has been with the Ford Motor Company for
the past eight years, first in the Dealer’s Branch, and later with
Ford at Willow Run in labor relations and personnel. He
has had his own Dealership for over a year. He has been
married for eight years and has a small son five years old.
Address: Bev Smith Motors, 104 West Grand River, Brigh-
ton, Michigan.

William D. Hoyt, Jr., with the Maryland Historical So-
ciety, is editor of its quarterly bulletin, Maryland History
Notes, and also the bi-monthly State and Local History News.
He has written many articles which have been published in
various historical magazines throughout the country.

William C. Edwards, still with D’Arcy Advertising Com-
pany, St. Louis, Missouri, says he is a proud father for a
second time. The date was March 25, 1945, and it’s another
girl.

Jackson Savage, after serving five years each in the Pro-
secuting Attorney’s Office and as Judge of the Criminal
Court, Charleston, West Virginia, is now in private practice,
specializing, naturally, in criminal law.

Dr. Randolph Tucker Shields, Jr., Major in the Medical
Corps in China for two years, is now teaching in the Medical
School of the University of Utah. A daughter, Anne Page,
was born March 27, 1946.

1933

T. Deal Blanchard is President-Treasurer of Blanchard
& Turner, Inc., fuel and hardware dealers. Hopes to have a
fifteenth anniversary reunion of his class during the Bicen-
tennial celebration. His son, Tommy is four years old and
daughter, Mary McDowell was born January 30, 1945. His
home is at 113 Florida Avenue, Portsmouth, Virginia.

John A. Womeldorf is pastor of the Princeton Presby-
terian Church, Princeton, West Virginia, moving there from
Richlands, Virginia on January 1, 1945. Reports the birth of
a third child, Mary Margaret Womeldorf.

1935

Lieutenant Colonel Rudolph Bumgardner was recently
awarded the Bronze Star, for meritorious achievement, by
Lieutenant General W. D. Styer, Commanding General, Army
Forces Western Pacific. Colonel Bumgardner heads the Le-
gal Section, Recovered Personnel Division, Army Forces
Western Pacific. Entering the service in June 1941, he was
assigned to the Pacific Theatre in May 1945. Home: 209
North Augusta Street, Staunton, Virginia.

Craig H. Berry returned to this country after three and a
half years in the Navy and is now in the drug business with
his father in Dallas, Texas. He is married and has a son four
years old. His address is 4726 Drexel Drive, Dallas, Texas.

Bernard E. Brennan has returned to Macy’s, New York,
from military service. He is working with a new veterans’
Service to facilitate a more rapid and thorough absorption of
the returning veterans into the Macy organization, and to
provide for all Macy employees access to information con-
cerning veterans’ status and benefits. Entering the service
in 1942 as a private, Brennan rose to the rank of Major in
the Army Air Forces, with which he served 30 months over-
seas, in charge of priorities and traffic for Wing Headquarters

[31]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

. ¢ +
cell)
——

of the Air Transport Command in Shanghai, China. His
home is in Rockville Centre, Long Island.

1936

Roland Hyatt, Jr., is Merchandising manager for a de-
partment store in Freeport, Illinois. He is married and has
a son four years old, and a daughter, two. Address: 822 West
Lincoln, Freeport, Illinois.

Harris E. Anderson served with the Air Corps during the
war and was discharged in December 1945, with the rank of
Captain, with the 20th Air Force serving in India and China.
He is a Funeral Director in Fort Pierce, Florida. He is
married and has a son, born July 2, 1940.

1937

Frank D. Crew is in business in Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania under the firm name of F. D. Crew & Company, Agents-
Contractors, Engineers. He is married, has two children, one
a “Sweet Briar” and the other a little “W & L.” They have
recently moved into their new home in Malvern, the address
being Box 777, Paoli, Pennsylvania. At a recent meeting of
Washington and Lee Alumni held in
elected President of the local chapter.

Philadelphia he was

Raymond F. Dustin is now employed as a Supervisor for
Hercules Powder Company in Mansfield, Massachusetts. He

 

is married and has two children, a son David, eight
years old, and a daughter Diane, six. His address is
Kast Street, Mansfield, Massachusetts.

1938

Robert (Bob) White, II, after two years with the
Army in the Southwest Pacific in Intelligence work in-
cluding a period on General McArthur’s staff, returned
to the States in October, 1944 to War Department,
where he covered the White House and Navy press
conferences for the Secretary of War, has recently
become a partner in the firm of The Evening Ledger,
Mexico, Missouri. Bob is the third generation White
to serve the Ledger management, serving as editors
and publishers for the past 70 years. His writings in-
clude numerous newspaper and a few magazine articles
from South and East Africa, South America, Europe
and the Pacific where he traveled before and during
the war. Two of his articles have been read into the
Congressional Record following publication in the
Ledger, “They Gave Their Lives,” and the other
about Mrs. Roosevelt’s visit to Australia. ‘They Gave
Their Lives” is reported to be one of the War’s most
published newspaper stories. He married Elizabeth
Finley February 25, 1942.

Votetotol

rT

orere
a .
fe

Calvert Thomas, after graduating from Washington
and Lee, took a law degree from the University of
Maryland, spent two years in the Solicitors office of
the Labor Department, a year at the Tax Court of the
U.S., and for the past two years, has been an attorney
in the Chief Counselors Office of the Bureau of In-
ternal Revenue in Washington, D.C. He was married
to Margaret Somervell Berry of “Concord,” Prince
George County, Maryland, on September 1, 1943. Ad-
dress: 4520 MacArthur Boulevard, N.W., Washington,
D.C.

John W. Merritt since leaving school has been with Brown
Williamson Tobacco Company, and in December 1940 was
sent to the British American Tobacco Company, Ltd., in the
Republic of Panama, where he lived until entering the Army
in March 1942, serving for three years in the Counter Intel-
ligence Corps. He is now discharged and is re-entering the
tobacco business and after some training in Petersburg, Vir-
ginia, will be heading back to South America.

Charles F. Clark, Jr., stationed in Washington as a First
Lieutenant on the Atomic Bomb program, Intelligence Di-
vision in February, expected to be out of the Army in April
and resume the practice of law. He was married in April
1945, to Virginia Gray Schoppenhorst, in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. Permanent address: 48 North Monroe Street, Cold-
water, Michigan.

Chester P. White is now working for his father at the
Blake & Johnson Company in Waterville, Connecticut. He
is married and has three sons all of whom he hopes will be
Pi Kappa Alpha’s at Washington and Lee.

Benjamin Cordon Davies is Secretary to the Editor of the
Reader’s Digest, 555 North Ardmore Avenue, Los Angeles,
California.

1939

Joseph C. Murphy spent 19 months overseas in the Euro-
pean Theatre of Operations; is now discharged and back in

[ 32 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the practice of law with the firm of Bowers and Rinehart,
Second National Bank Building, Somerville, New Jersey.

William McClelland is now Rector of St. John’s Protest-
ant Episcopal Church, Cape Vincent, New York. He was
married to Emily Lloyd, of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, on
June 23, 1945.

Lieutenant Commander Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., is teach-
ing in the Naval ROTC at Harvard the second semester. He
frequently visits his mother, who lives in Lexington.

Jim Saltsman expected to be out of the Army in the spring
or early summer. He was married to Emelie Brooks John-
stone of Cincinnati on November 25, 1944. Address: 2782 Ob-
servatory Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Robert L. Early, Jr., spent the last three years as a pilot in
the Air Corps, and is now with Early & Daniel Company,
Cincinnati, Ohio. He married Elizabeth Rountree of Bir-
mingham, Alabama and they have a daughter three years old.
Address: 650 Rushton’ Road, Cincinnati, Ohio.

First Lieutenant Harry E. Redenbaugh, Office of Quar-
termaster General, Clothing and Equipage Branch, Washing-
ton, D.C., was married December 26, 1942 to Mary Jayne
Whipkey, and has a son, James Edwards Redenbaugh, born

July 31, 1944.
R. L. (Dick) Howell enlisted in the Naval Reserve and

in February 1941, was commissioned a. midshipman at the
Naval Academy at Annapolis, received his stripe as an en-
sign and stayed on for postgraduate training; had sea duty
in the north Atlantic, with a prolonged sojourn in Iceland:
was transferred to U.S.A.T. Santa Paula as Armed Guard
Commander in 1942, and spent a year transporting troops to
Australia, New Zealand, New Caladonia, Africa and India.
Following this he had duty in the Pacific with operations in
the Marshall and Gilbert Islands, Hollandia, Mariannas. ete.
In June of 1944 during the Saipan invasion they were hit
and as a result of the bombing set afire, with some loss of
life. After the operation he was again transferred
and served abroard the U.S.S. New Kent as First
Lieutenant and Gunnery Officer, and made the
landing at Okinawa. He was released to inactive
duty and arrived at his home in Lynchburg on
October 21; still a Lieutenant Commander in
the Naval Reserve. He is now district agent for
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Lynchburg.

Company in

1940

Newton Harman is practicing law in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, with the firm of Blue. Day-
ton and Campbell, Security Building. He went
to Charleston originally as an attorney for the
State Office of the Office of Price Administration
and after nine months went into his present em-
ployment.

Thomas E. Bruce, Jr., writes from Lynchburg,
Virginia, where he has been with Leach. Calkins
& Scott, a large public accounting firm, since
1944. After graduation at Washington and Lee
he was with the Virginia Electric and Power
Company, Richmond, Virginia, where he helped
make the cost study of their property which the
Securities and Exchange Commission required.
He plans to take the C.P.A. examination. Home:
222 Norfolk Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

 

Bill V. Ayres received his discharge from the Army on
October 25, after four and a half years service. He has been
married since June 1942, and has a daughter, Lynn. Address:
2220) Kugene Field Avenue, St. Joseph, Missouri.

Captain D. A. (Dave) Thomas has been in the service
since 1942, writing in December 1945, had been in Korea for
approximately six weeks. Hopes that it will not be long un-
til he can rejoin his wife and six year old son who are living
in Marshall, Texas.

David J. Isaly, 421 Mt. Vernon Avenue, Marion, Ohio,
was separated from the Navy as Lieutenant, October 26, 1945,
is now back in the Dairy Industry. He is married and has
two daughters, Janice, 2, and Carolyn, 3.

1941

W. L. Shannon is now located in Shelbyville, Kentucky, in
the Funeral Directory profession with his father. He is also
half-owner in Scharton Flying Service, Inc., recently started
in Shelby County.

Lieutenant Commander W. A. Marsteller, Supply Corps,
USNR, after three years overseas is attached to U.S. Gun
Factory, Washington, D.C. Address: 6 West Blackthorn
Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

H. M. Kimbrough received his discharge from the Navy
on January 5, 1946, after active duty as a skipper.of a T.P.
boat tor 12 months, then 17 months on the USS Mission Bay
(CVIy 59), an escort aircraft carrier, serving in all three
theatres of war. He was married to Craig Summers on March
12, 1945. Address: 1321 Ferris Court, Spokane, Washington.

John M. Read, Jr., received his discharge from the Army
last November and is now working with the Braswell Audit-
ing Company in Atlanta as an accountant. Address: 2814
Peachtree Road, Atlanta, Georgia.

G. Murray Smith, Jr., received his discharge from the

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Navy on September 28, 1945 and since that time has been
practicing law in Richmond, Kentucky.

1942

B. E. Jasper, after three years on the destroyer Pringle,
sunk off Okinawa, shortly after he left on orders, is now
married and living in Kankakee, Illinois, fifty miles south of
Chicago, in business with his father at Manco Manufactur-
ing Company. Address: 392 South Harrison, Kankakee, I[lli-

nos.

Ray Whitaker began
classes at the Denver Uni-
versity law school on March
25. He says that he intends
to practice in that part of
the country —hence _ the
study out there. His ad-
dress: 214 South Linden
Street, Denver 9, Colorado.

Bill Jasper is now dis-
charged from the Army Stu-
dent Medical Corps and is
interning at St. Luke’s Hos-
pital, 1439 South Michigan,
Chicago.

Lieutenant R. F. Camp-
bell, Jr., U.S.N.R., Supply
Officer, Naval Air Station,
Vero Beach, Florida, re-
turned to the States last
June after 18 months aboard
the U. S. Kitkun Bay, an
escort carrier. He expects to
be discharged early in the
summer and is. tentatively
planning a year’s course in
Journalism at Columbia
University. Home address:
6 Pearson Drive, Asheville,
North Carolina.

Frank LaMotte, after four
years in the Navy, is now
living at Cowpens Farm,
Towson 4, Maryland.

1943
Kenelm L. Shirk, Jr., is

now discharged from the service, having attained the rank of
First Lieutenant. He served in Italy with the 15th Air Force
and was a warded the Air Medal. Home: 354 New Holland
Avenue, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

E. S. Brown is now with the Columbia Motor Service af-
ter having been discharged from the Marine Corps as a
Captain. He is married and has one child, a daughter. Ad-
dress: 4474 Westminster Place, St. Louis 8, Missouri.

1946

John Kelly finished his pre-med work at Duke, spent
three months at the Navy Medical Center, Bethesda, Mary-
land, and is now winding up his sophomore year at the Med-
ical College of Virginia. His address is 1105 East Clay Street,
Richmond, Virginia.

 

Marriages
1933

Major William Todd DeVan and Charlotte Newton Shep-
pard were married in Hanover, Pennsylvania, January 5, 19460.

1937

Lieutenant Laurence White Wilson, Jr., and Martha Da-
vis Eubanks were married on January 5, 1946, in Shelby,
North Carolina.

1938

Arthur Henry Alexander
and Hazel Elinor Dinges
were married Saturday,
March 3, 1946, in Baltimore,
Maryland.

William Herbert Hillier
and Frances. Elizabeth
Wynne were married on
February 9, 1946, and are
now at home at 5524 Black-
stone, Chicago, Illinois.

1940
Woodward, II,

Mary Hardin Morris were
married March 23, 1946, in
Louisville, Kentucky.

Ernest

Robert Steele Hutcheson,
Jr., Lieutenant (j.g.), Med-
ical Corps, USNR, was
married to Mary Louise
Moffett, of Charlettesville,
Virginia, on March 1, 1946.

1941

Charles F. Heiner was
married to Frances’ Bain,
— — Randolph Macon, ‘41, on
September 29, 1945.

cA re >
; ~~ eng F
= ed So oie S meg
a on ene Ore)

ene yi 4 Me

1942

Robert T. Vaughan was
married to Virginia Estes
in Danville, Virginia, on April 6, 1946. They will make their
home at 1104 Washington Street, South Boston, Virginia.

i. a
ins ie

Stanley Lewis Carlsson was married to Helen Gibbons of
Wilmette, Illinois, on March 16, 1946. Stan and his wife were
visitors to the campus on March 21. He was released from
the Navy on March 4, 1946.

1943

James F. Berry and Joyce Drummond of Abilene, Texas,
were married October 13, 1945, and are now residing in Arl-
ington, Virginia.

1944

Edmund Arthur Donnan, Jr., was married to Adelaide
Marshall on April 12, 1946.

[ 34 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Clarence F. Johnson, Jr., was married to Elizabeth Row-
land Horton on January 26, 1946, in Ashland, Kentucky. They
are living in Lexington and Clarence is again a student at
Washington and Lee.

Births
1930

Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. Stanley Forrest Hampton
are the parents of a daughter, Hila Knight, born January 2,
1946, in San Antonio, Texas. Address: 6377 Pershing Avenue,
St. Louis, Missouri.

1933

Mr. and Mrs. William Howard Flowers of Merrily Plan-
tion, Thomasville, Georgia, announce the birth of a daughter,
Daphne Howard Flowers, on May 1, 1946.

1934

To Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Buffington, a son, Robert Wil-
son Buffington, born February 23, 1946.

1936

Chaplain and Mrs. James L. Price, Jr., announce the birth
of a son, James Ligon, III, on March 10, 1946.

1940
Mr. and Mrs. George V. Nicholas, B.A. ’40, LL.B. °42, an-

nounce the birth of a son, George Emmet Nicholas, II, on
January 28, 1946. Home: 536 Shafer Boulevard, Dayton, Ohio.

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis announce the birth of a son,
Andrew Marc Lewis, on March 18, 1946.

Mr. and Mrs. Homer D. Jones, Jr., announce the birth of
a son, Jonathan Cornwell, on February 6, 1946, in St. Louis,
Missouri.
1942

Dr. and Mrs. Walter Scott Gilmer announce the birth of
a daughter, Amanda Wilson, on October 17, 1945, at Baron-
ess Erlanger Hospital, Chattanooga, Tennessee, where Dr.
Gilmer is interning.

Mr. and Mrs. John Kenneth Mallory, Jr., announce the
birth of a son, John Kenneth, III, March 13, 1946.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Fleming Robb, Jr., announce the
birth of a son, Kdwin Fleming, [I], on February 13, 1946.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. William Robert Gaines are the parents of
a son, William Robert Jr., born April 13, 1946. It is of in-
terest that this baby is the great-great-grandson of Patrick
Henry; was born on the birthday of Thomas Jefferson; in
the home of General Thomas J. Jackson (now Jackson Me-
morial Hospital), and will live in the home of General Robert
E. Lee, on the Washington and Lee campus, since his father
is the son of President and Mrs. Gaines, and is now com-
pleting his educational work at the University after service

in World War II.

[ 3

-

In Memoriam

1870

John Ellis Isbell of Amqui, Tennessee, died on December
18, 1945.
1893

Eli Morris Jackson, of New York, died January 12, 1946,

1894

Mr. Garrett B. Junkin died at his home in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, December 16, 1945.

1896

Frank J. Fallon died April 13, 1946, at a Roanoke, Virgin-
is, hospital of a heart ailment. Founder of Fallon Florist Com-
pany with headquarters in Roanoke and branches in Blue-
field, West Virginia, and Charlottesville, Virginia, he was
the donor of Fallon Park to the City of Roanoke.

1904

Judge Andrew Jackson Power died January 17, 1946, in
Fort Worth, Texas. At the time of his death he was Judge
of the District Court of Appeals. His son, A. J. Power, Jr., is
now a student at Washington and Lee.

1913

Grady Doak Davidson was killed on April 10, 1946, in a
mine accident at the E. J. & B. mine on Fed’s creek near
Pikeville, Kentucky. His partner, Zachariah Justice, 13, was
seriously injured in the same accident. They were supervis-
ing construction work on a new mine which they had recently
purchased.

1916

Arthur Herbert Toothman died March 2, 1946, in Wash-
ington, D.C.

1921
John Wesley Bell Thompson died suddenly of a heart at-
tack at his home in Franklin, Virginia, February 20, 1946,
1926

John Wesley Taylor died suddenly at his home in Staun-
ton, Virginia, March 3, 1946.

Mr. Francis Battaile Waters of Cape Charles, Virginia,
died suddenly of a heart attack in March 1946.
1935
Dr. John Robert Switzer, Jr., of Harrisonburg, Virginia,
died at his home, January 30, 19406.
1937
Alfred Flournoy Zachry died in West Point, Georgia, on
December 20, 1945, of pneumonia.
1943

Donald Eugene Cook was killed January 11, 1946, in a
traffic accident between Muskogee and Tulsa, Oklahoma.

5 |

 

 

 

 

Victory Reunion

at
Finals, 1946
May 30, 31, and June 1

P

In World War II over one-third of the living alumni of Wash-

ington and Lee were in the uniform of our country. One hun-

dred and twenty-five alumni lost their lives in service. All alum-

ni are urged to join in celebration of the Victory. Washington
and Lee has given much to make it possible.

 

RAEARALARAALELRAAAALAAAALAAALAAALACAAAAAELAALALAAASAAAALAAASALAAAAAAAAALAAAAAAAACAAAAALAA LAAAAAAAAAAAASARAAAAAAAAAASASLAARAAAAAAAAASAASLAAAALAASL
YSSSeeeeyeyeyy

‘Pro gram

Thursday, May 30
10:00 p.m. Dance—Senior-Alumni Ball—Doremus Gymnasium—Music by Ray McKinley

Friday, May 31

9:00 a.m. Alumni Board of Trustees and Alumni Council—Alumni Offices
University Board of Trustees Meeting
Faculty Meeting

1:00 to 2:00 p.m. Alumni Luncheon—Dining Hall—Back Campus

2:00 p.m. General Alumni Meeting—Washington College

3:45 to 5:15 p.m. Band Concert-—Doremus Gymnasium—NMiusic by Ray McKinley

5:30 p.m. Memorial Service to Washington and Lee men who gave their lives to the

Country in World War II—Lee Chapel
6:00 to 10:00 p.m. President’s Reception—President’s Home
11:00 p.m. Final Ball—Doremus Gymnasium—Music by Ray McKinley

Saturday, June 1

11:00 a.m. Baccalaureate Sermon and Conferring of Degrees—Lee Chapel

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

