<
z
<
Qa
<
o
a
wa
"
a
=
U
z
e
=
z

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

DECEMBER,

1947

AVC .
O1%. 755
W217 alu
V; 23, no, |

o 9

 

 

 

 

 

Did You Remember?
e

Income Tax Regulations

 

which make your 1947 Bicentennial Dollar cost you between

14 cents and 81 cents

 

The General Education Board
Conditional Gift

which makes your 1947 Bicentennial Dollar worth $1.25 to

Washington and Lee.

 

Only --?-- more giving days before January Ist

BICENTENNIAL
of Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—A. Carter Crymble, ‘18, Ten-
nessee Eastman Corp., Kingsport, Tenn.

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building

Baltimore—Lawrence Galloway, '43, 1312 John
Street

Birmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee Kenna, ‘40,
£01 Swarthmore

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., ‘19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—John G. Tomlin, '38, 2625 Handa-
syde Court

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Florida, West Coast—C. T. Dawkins, ‘09, 2613
Sunset Drive, Tampa 6, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Mimai, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, ‘33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—Edward S. Graves, '30, 409 Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, ‘37, 4158
uckahoe Lane

New York—Gossett W. McRae, ‘28, 19 Rector
Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—A. Stacey Gifford, '24, Greensboro,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, '15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., °33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘'15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, ‘21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D.C.—Randolph D. Rouse, ‘39,
Valley Vista Apts., Belmont Road, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXIII DECEMBER, 1947 No. 1

 

Bags 35 ESS Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pregéet 0.5.0.3. Leon W. Harris, 1915
Vice-President.............000..000- L. W. Witson, 1910
Secretary...........0.+. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TTCQSUTEP 0.0... cccccceccees WarrEN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Leon W. Harris, 1915
Amos A. Boten, 1937

LAURENCE W. Witson, 1910

Henry P. Jounston, 1929

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911

WarrEN E. Tirson, 1926

THE FRONT COVER

Tense moment in the Homecoming game shows a concerned
squad and crowd. This photo was taken a few moments be-
fore the Generals began to roll in earnest to pile up a

32-0 triumph over Davidson,

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Servant of the Nation

Geographical analysis of the current student body
shows the same wide distribution that we have had dur-
ing recent years. The percentage for Virginia has risen
slightly, since the benefits of the “G. I. bill” permit many
boys to come who could not otherwise attend; but the
student body is undoubtedly a truly national group.

* * * *K *

You will recall that a survey made some years before
the war by another institution indicated that we had the
most widely distributed undergraduate group on any
American campus. That condition, or approximately that
condition, still obtains.

* Kk K KX *

[ have been interested to know the reason for this in-
teresting fact. | presume that in early years the people
of our section who had moved to other states began to
send their sons back. I presume that the notable interest
expressed by the Father of our country impressed boys
in other regions. I presume that the prestige of the col-
lege itself has always been inviting.

* kK *K K *

The influence of Lee was probably the most compul-
sive reason. Many historical scholars—Woodrow Wilson
and Professor Buck of Harvard, to mention only two—
have noted that his spirit and his attitude were of im-
mense significance in promoting a true reconciliation of
the sections. It was perhaps a by-product of his efforts in
this direction that boys from all over the nation, North
as well as South, began to attend his college.

* * KK *

The story of wide distribution is sustained, of course,
in the record of alumni achievement. I recently made a

cursory study of alumni accomplishment in connection
with Bicentennial literature; and even I was amazed to
find the number of different states of our country in which
—through all fields of human endeavor—our alumni
have earned places of authority and of maximum use-
fulness.

* Ke K KX

In phrasing a title for these notes, I deliberately used
the word servant because I believe that word carries
the implication of our noblest history and of our deepest
aspiration. Two thoughts in this connection have given
us cause for reflection and cause for a renewal of ener-
gies.

* * KK

One of these facts is that, by reason of the enormous
increase in enrollment, the American colleges have today
on the campus, as never before, almost the total poten-
tial of leadership for the next decades. The leadership of
our nation, I am confident, will shortly be just what the
colleges have ordered.

* * KK *

The other fact is that in the light of world conditions
it is now more important than ever before that college
students are trained for something more than personal
competence or even personal happiness. We must give
these excellent young people wider understanding of pub-
lic problems and a stronger devotion to public duty.

* ek KK *

The alumni and the other friends of Washington and
Lee may take this assurance, that as far as our wisdom
and our tireless effort will effect this result, we shall
try to make of our current students, magnificent in their
promuse, still the ‘servants of the nation.”

| RE: he

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Bicentennial Progress Report

With $600,000 cash in the till and another $50,000 definitely
promised, the Bicentennial Fund this month entered the
stage during which its appeal will be carried to every alumnus,
every parent of a student or veteran alumnus, and every
friend of the University in the nation. In most communities
the campaign will be conducted through personal calls by
volunteer members of Alumni Bicentennial Committees.

In 1947 the Fund expanded from a small organization on
the second floor of McCormick Library to a going concern
with “branch offices” in 127 cities throughout the United
States. A few of the committees have opened their drives and
report encouraging support, most of them are planning in-
tensive work shortly after the first of the year, a few others
will delay their campaigns until Spring, Col. Milton B.
Rogers, °17, retiring executive director, announced early in
December.

- Desha Will Head Bicentennial in 1948

During the coming year the $3,000,000 campaign will be
led by Prof. L. J. Desha, 06, and will merge into the Bicen-
tennial Year celebration, which will reach its climax during
the 1948-49 school session. Dr. Desha came to the faculty in
1920, and for the past ten years has been Bayly Professor of
Chemistry and head of the department. He served as Dean
of the University last year and was awarded an appointment
on the Ball Foundation. Since September he has been re-
lieved of all his academic duties in order to devote full time
to the Bicentennial.

Col. Rogers, who came to the campus in September, 1946,

 

Colonel Milton B. Rogers
Lexington, Virginia

My dear Colonel Rogers:

At its meeting on November 15, the Executive Committee
of the Board of Trustees directed me to send to you an ex-
pression of appreciation for the work you have done as Di-
rector of the Bicentennial Campaign.

Unanimously the trustees of this University entertain
admiration for the fidelity and the efficiency with which you
have managed an important and somewhat difficult task; and
unanimously they feel a strong sense of gratitude for the con-
tribution of lasting importance which you have made. It is
the sense of the trustees that results already obtained are the
rewarding fruitage of your intelligent and conscientious la-
bors, but we are convinced that the results of your effort will
be evident for many years to come both in better under-
standing of Washington and Lee and in stronger support
for its work.

Happily I add my personal sentiments, from the bottom
of my heart, to those of the governing board. It has been a
joy to all of us on this campus to have you as a member of
our official family and as a friend in our academic communi-
ty. | know, perhaps better than any one else knows, that the
help which you have rendered to your Alma Mater is incal-
culably blessed.

Cordially your friend,

FRANCIS P. GAINES, President

to initiate the campaign, leaves January 1 to return to his
business in New York, having already secured a four-month
extension of his original year’s leave in order to complete the
organizational work.

“We are convinced that the results of your efforts will be
evident for many years to come both in better understanding
of Washington and Lee and in stronger support for its work,”
President Gaines, speaking for the Board of Trustees, said
in his letter accepting Col. Rogers’ resignation.

Allen T. Snyder, ’39, who served as associate director with
Col. Rogers in setting up the Bicentennial organization, re-
turned to his business in Philadelphia September 1, and was
succeeded by William Buchanan, ’41.

Average Gift to Date Is $820

The Bicentennial Fund made its first analysis of returns
on November 11, when $590,952.01 had been received. Of
this amount, $288,452.01 had come from 352 contributors—
$175,855.01 of it was given by alumni and students, $32,955
by parents and $79,642 by others. The average gift was about
$820. Bequests amounted to $200,500, and foundations (in-
cluding the General Education Board’s 25 per cent of all
money given for scholarships and endowment) had contri-
buted $102,000. The Fund staff estimates that a tenth of the
potential donors to the Bicentennial will have been reached
by December 31.

Of the cash receipts, $62,309 had been earmarked for cer-
tain of the 132 Memorial Scholarships which will honor the
alumni who died in service.

The states from which most contributions have come are
Virginia—119 ($35,223.18); Tennessee—40 ($13,097.00); New
York—34 ($90,243.33), and Maryland—24 ($3,615.00).

Intensive Drive to Come Next Year

The time schedule for the campaign, which had original-
ly called for an intensive drive during the fall of this year
and a follow-up next spring, was revised in September due
to unavoidable delays in completing the pre-campaign or-
ganization in several regions.

“We are following a policy of leaving the dates of the lo-
cal campaign as far as possible in the hands of the regional
chairmen,” Dr. Desha said last week. “Memphis, Chattanooga,
Cumberland, Bluefield, Hartford, Savannah, Lynchburg,
Jacksonville and a number of other places are already off to
a good start. Most cities will have their campaigns started by
mid-January. In a few regions along the Gulf Coast, chair-
men wisely decided to defer the intensive part of their solici-
tation until the effects of this fall’s storm damage have to
some extent been overcome.” ,

Members of the faculty and administration are speaking
at opening dinners in every region where there is a large
concentration of alumni. Dr. Gaines is now completing a
heavy fall schedule in which he toured most of the East,
South and Southeast to make addresses in fourteen major
cities. Groups in other cities have been addressed by Dean
Leyburn, Dean Gilliam, Dean Williams, Col. Rogers and
Professors Desha and McDowell.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

‘bites

y 7 . . ; ;
memorial. whlarship 44 herely awarded for bhe acadewte SODA O
tl

AD wr bo

. é 4 ee y 2 ° °
“i recognition of hes characltersnud trtelbvetual pron tie.aud wilh

Pace 7G ie
confident / hupe hal lhees: hai “ i hip, COM MOMWMHG hevotsmand
4

devolion : awl wlimulale fis OWM'AI Wh beraleoul °

h,

—s 7s. : c 7 ;
Shits. ened Joh baad ip haibcenmuiude.aratlille (y
4

4 e.. ao fy ff
V7, goucrouly t

Prosidacdt |

REPLICA OF THE ANNUAL

M EMORIAL

herman  Sihotiarship Committee

SCHOLARSHIP AWARD CERTIFICATE

The form and wording on this facsimile are tentative, and may be changed before the official eight-by-eleven-inch engraved
certificates are made. One of these certificates will be awarded each year to each of the 132 students who
will receive Memorial Scholarships.

Movie of the Campus Is Popular

The sound-color motion picture of Washington and Lee
history and academic, social and athletic life, filmed on the
campus last spring, became generally available in October,
and four copies have since been kept spinning across the
country—from Hartford to Milwaukee, Norfolk to Oklahoma
City, Dallas to Miami. They have received an enthusiastic
reception wherever they have been shown. It is hoped that
the film will be exhibited in every region where there are a
dozen alumni or more, before the Bicentennial Year ends.

With regional organizations almost complete in every city
with a large number of alumni, the Bicentennial Office is now
enlisting chairmen in those cities and towns with four to
twelve alumni, parents or friends living in them.

John W. Davis, ’92, general chairman of the Bicenten-
nial, recently stated that “the University prizes highly the
loyalty of each son and recognizes the importance of main-
taining a personal contact. We are convinced that the Bicen-

tennial Fund campaign will achieve largest results, both in
good will and in contributions, wherever it is possible to ar-
range a man-to-man contact through a fellow alumnus.”

Through these two interlocking national networks, which
cover 41 states and the District of Columbia, about three-
fourths of the 10,000 living Washington and Lee alumni will
be called upon personally by a committeeman from their
own community.

The remainder will either be reached through personal
letters from a state or regional chairman or will be con-
tacted by mail from Lexington.

Prepare Bicentennial Alumni Directory
Incidental to their other services, the chairmen are per-
forming a monumental job in bringing up to date through lo-
cal inquiries the Alumni Association's file of addresses, which
was inevitably disorganized by frequent moves during the
war. These corrections will serve as a basis of the Bicen-

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

tennial Alumni Directory, the first complete register of all
alumni to be compiled since 1926. Editor of the Directory is
Thomas C. Wilson, ’43, who has already begun supplement-
ing the lists with information obtained from biographical
questionnaires.

By decision of the Alumni Executive Committee, the Class
Agent Plan in 1948 will be merged with the Bicentennial cam-
paign. Class Agents are being appointed for the year, and
will write their usual letters to gather personal information
for alumni notes and to urge upon members of their classes
the importance of supporting the Bicentennial Fund.

Expenses of the Alumni Association will be borne in
1948 by the University, and contributions will be made to
the Bicentennial through local chairmen rather than through
Class Agents. However, each contribution will be credited to
the donor’s annual record of giving to his Class Fund. Thus,
the continuity of his own giving record will continue uninter-
rupted, and his class total will be increased to the extent of
his gift. The totals for each class will be published in the
next issue of the Alumni Magazine.

Eight major printed publications, dealing with some
phase of the Bicentennial, have been produced during the
past year. These included instructions for chairmen and
committeemen, special pamphlets dealing with the Memori-
al Scholarship Plan, a catalogue of opportunities for memo-
rial gifts in buildings and endowment, and a Christmas cal-
endar of views of the University which was sent to every
alumnus this month. All but two of these publications, and
numerous minor pieces with limited distribution, have been
printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press.

 

Weekly Father-and-Son Dinner

Each Saturday there is a father-and-son dinner for nine
Louisville, Kentucky, lawyers, all from one firm—Woodward,
Dawson, Hobson and Fulton. For this firm is unusual in that
the four senior members all have sons in the firm. These din-
ners are more than family get-togethers. They are used to
bring all the members together once a week to review de-
cisions of higher courts, and to discuss their own cases.

The fathers are Ernest Woodward, Sr., who. contributes
two sons; Fielden and Ernest, Jr.; Judge Charles I. Dawson,
whose son is Richard; Robert P. Hobson, whose son is
Robert C.; and Judge Will H. Fulton, who has John D., al-
ready in the firm, and Will, Jr., with the Court of Appeals
staff getting home finishing touches. Ernest and Fielden
Woodward, Jr., are graduates of Washington and Lee, Field-
en, B.A. °37 and LL.B. ’39; Ernest, B.A. ’40. Young Bob Hob-
son, B.A. ’40, LL.B. °42, is the third generation of Hobson
lawyers, all graduates from Washington and Lee. No. 1 was
Judge John Peyton Hobson, M.A. 1870, of the Court of Ap-
peals, a Chief Justice, and graduated from Washington Col-
lege while General Robert E. Lee was its president; and a
letter from the General, telling of the grandfather’s fine
record, hangs in the Hobson office. The second Hobson,
Robert P., is an A.B. of 1914, and an LL.B. of 717.

 

W. and L. TRANSPLANTED

The villagers in pretty little Stratford, Connecticut, are
adding a bit of Washington and Lee to their picturesque com-
munity. The town planning and zoning board has approved a
new theatre which, according to Judge R. L. Weldon, who
presented the case for the new theatre to the town board, is
a “colonial structure to be modelled upon a building on the
campus of Washington and Lee University.” (Albert M.
Pickus, ’24, is co-owner of the new project).

Alumni Represent University

The following alumni represented Washington and Lee
at recent presidential inauguration ceremonies:

Dr. Herbert V. Carson, °13, inauguration of Dr. Hardy
Liston, president of Johnson C. Smith University, Charlotte,
North Carolina;

Edward S. Delaplaine, ‘13, inauguration of Dr. John S.
Keiffer, president of St. John’s College, Annapolis, Mary-
land;

W. Carroll Mead, °13, inauguration of Dr. Lowell Skinner
Ensor, president of Western Maryland College, Weston,
Maryland;

Marion Junkin, ’27, inauguration of Dr. Johnson as presi-
dent of Fiske University, Nashville, Tennessee;

Joseph R. Long, ’23, inauguration of Dr. Franc Lewis
McCluer as president of Lindenwood College, St. Charles,
Missouri;

H. H. Butler, ’28, inauguration of Dr. Merrill J. Holmes
as president of Illinois Wesleyan University, Bloomington,
Illinois.

 

ALUMNI APPOINTED BY GOVERNOR TUCK
TO FILL STATE OFFICES

Abram Penn Staples, LL.B. ’08, Attorney-General of Vir-
ginia since 1934, was named by Governor Tuck to succeed the
late George Landon Browning as associate justice of the
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals; Harvey B. Apperson,
"13, member of the State Corporation Commission and form-
er State Senator from Roanoke County, was named by the
Governor to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Staples as At-
torney-General; Willis D. Miller, °15, was appointed a mem-
ber of the State Supreme Court of Appeals to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of Judge Henry W. Holt, LL.B. ’88 and
LL.D. ’29, who died October 4, 1947.

Highly regarded by State officials and members of the bar
for his knowledge of the law and Constitution and for his
astuteness as a lawyer, Mr. Staples made his first bid for
public office in 1927, in a successful campaign for the State
Senate from Roanoke. He won reelection in 1931. As a Sena-
tor he served on the legislative commission which planned the
State’s liquor control system. Judge Staples is the son of the
late Abram P. Staples who was professor of law at Wash-
ington and Lee University from 1903 to 1913. A Phi Beta
Kappa, Mr. Staples also is a member of Phi Kappa Sigma,
and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Mr. Apperson, member of the State Corporation Com-
mission for the past two and a half years, is a former State
Senator from Roanoke County. Like Mr. Staples, Mr. Ap-
person is a former president of the Roanoke Bar Association.
He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary fraternity.

Judge Miller was a student at Washington and Lee for
only a short time.

 

ALUMNI OF W. and L. AND VIRGINIA
PLAY SOFTBALL

The Louisville Boat Club was the scene of a fast and
furious softball game between alumni of Washington and Lee
and the University of Virginia on August 30, when the Wash-
ington and Lee team turned back their foe of long standing
14-6. Prominent among the W. and L. players were Norman
lier, Fielden Woodward, Ernest Woodward, Charlie Semple,
Dick Day, Bill Whaley, Bill Kinnard, Tom Tuley, Kennedy
Helm, John Faulkner, Louis Herrman, Terry Blandford and
Ches. McCall. There was beer and cakes and everybody had
a good time.

[8]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Opening of the 19477-1948 Session

By Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students

With the session of 1946-47 characterized as definitely a
transition period between war-time Washington and Lee and
the post-war era, the current 1947-48 session opened with
conditions back to normal patterns except for the differences
resulting from increased numbers. This expansion of the stu-
dent body by approximately one-third has, of course, been
felt in many different areas of student life.

The total enrollment of all divisions of the University on
1 November reached 1281, as against an approximate 935 for
the several years immediately before the war and against
1160 for the fall of 1946. The most marked proportionate in-
crease has been in attendance in the School of Law, with an
enrollment this fall of 239, as against slightly under one
hundred as a pre-war average and 157 in 1946. Arts, Com-
merce, and Science show for this year 1043 compared with
1003 at the same date in 1946 and compared with the pre-
war figure of around 850.

Of the total enrollment, around 775 are veterans and the
remaining 500 non-veterans. The enrollment in the School of
Law is overwhelmingly veteran enrollment, both in old men
returning and in new men entering, veterans being 214 of the
239 total. The entering class in Law will probably continue
to be largely veteran through at least the 1948-49 entering
group. The number of married students in the student body
dropped this year to 211 from last year’s figure of 220.

The fact that the total increase for this year was not
greater was the result of a decision of the Board of Trustees
not to permit enrollment to go beyond the point where the
quality of instruction would necessarily suffer or inevitable
financial deficits be incurred. The enrollment of new stu-
dents, other than in Law, was consequently set at approxi-
mately 300, just about the pre-war figure, with this group
comprised almost exclusively of freshmen with practically
no transfer students.

The freshman academic class of 295 is the first post-war
class in which the non-veteran students are in the great ma-
jority, there being only 39 veterans in the group. This fact

 

ADMISSION POLICY FOR 1948-1949

The continuing flow of applications for admission to
Washington and Lee in September, 1948, indicate a situation
not differing materially from that of the last several years
in the number of applicants far exceeding the places available.

In accord with the general policy of the Board of Trustees,
Washington and Lee will move back toward a normal pre-
war enrollment, exclusive of Law, of around 850. This goal
will again result in a freshman class of approximately 300.
With every mail filled with requests concerning admission,
the following procedure has been worked out. Interested
applicants are urged to submit their formal application blanks
this fall, to permit ample time for the full investigation of all
records and references. Supplementary records of grades made
during the first semester of the current session will be. sub-
mitted after 1 February. Around the end of April a tentative
selection of the class will be made, with a waiting list estab-
lished from which any vacancies through cancellations will
be filled. Applicants whose papers are approved in April,
pending, of course, the satisfactory completion of the current
session’s work, will be asked to pay in advance a reasonable
proportion of the first semester’s tuition, in order to hold a
place on the class roll.

Alumni can render a great service to Washington and Lee
in seeing that any boys who they feel would make desirable
students here are informed as to the current situation. The
fullest consideration will be given to the application of any
son, relative, or friend of an alumnus, but the final selection
must, of course, be on the relative merits of all phases of the
applicants’ credentials; and all applications must be com-
pleted in time to be given consideration in April when the
class will be selected.

 

 

 

Line Forms for Registration

represents no discrimination against veteran students, but
simply that the over-whelming majority of the veterans who
are prepared for college and who might be normal applicants
for admission at Washington and Lee are already in college.
The great demand for places in colleges that still exists, how-
ever, has probably resulted in its being possible to select the
best prepared group of men from high schools and prepara-
tory schools that has ever entered Washington and Lee.

The enrollment for all divisions of the University, ex-
clusive of the School of Law, shows approximately 70 per
cent from the South, with West Virginia and Maryland in-
cluded in the South. In the enrollment of the School of Law,
not yet tabulated geographically, the percentage from the
South is somewhat larger.

The effects of the increased enrollment has been anticipated
and solved with relative success in most phases of student
life. The greatest difficulty has probably been encountered in
the social fraternities. With relatively few men having been
graduated since the war, the upper-classes are top-heavy,
making it extremely difficult for some fraternities to find
facilities for anything like a normal-sized pledge class. The
chapters have, however, extended themselves to the utmost,
with some chapter rolls reaching into the seventies. The

[9 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

fact still remains that an uncomfortably large number of
students are on the campus who wish to join fraternities,
who are, in every sense, fraternity material, but for whom
adequate facilities do not exist. It is almost certain that this
situation will be greatly improved by next session, with the
large number of veteran students, who will complete their
work before September, 1948.

 

Student Sons of Alumni

Of the students now registered at Washington and Lee
there are 144 sons of alumni, the largest number ever en-
rolled in the student body. The classes represented by alumni
fathers cover a long period, beginning with 1893 and ending
with 1928.

Son Father
PRs BE riled. iniducthicsclibisibadeinersnedlie Alex Travis Allen, ’23
Bagley, Thomas Owen.................4. *Charles Frank Bagley, ’07
ERG NG Es PORMUTI OCC F ccpsicnasovdnpprnnbvcctlvess Sherman Hart Ballard, ’21
PiU WA OUE@ FT, 5s, cccshaisindebidue veoineil Sherman Hart Ballard, ’21
Barker, Elbridge Gerry, Jr............. Elbridge Gerry Barker, ’26
TE cD iccs Seiinnddando\caspactln set ike ni catbaes Henry N. Barker, ’14
Peers Seren eens «CMON too, sl haencnckijopclagmrekenses Allien Beall, ’18
PR dS... Sic. pibedss\brea-tubh idl bbriiaccesdiescecsnesennse Roger J. Bear, ’14
POF 5 AO UE a iiedbabaea tla anaditdanen sccnabiebesancoseouss *]. Brian Bell, ‘11
Benton, Jesse Wilson, Jr................000 Jesse Wilson Benton, °19
Berryman, John Robertt.................... Robert Lee Berryman, ’23
Bishop, Wallace Kingsley................ccccscssocsssscscseeees J. B. Hoke, ’21
Bitzer, Emory West, Jr................ Dr. Emory West Bitzer, ’07
Brooke, Howard Adama........ *Col. George Mercer Brooke, ’00
Brown, Wesley Gregory................ Edward Emerson Brown, ’11
Birt TE ae, 20. cad ctinkentitiderediodarinse Homer S. Bryant, ’20
Burton, Richard Coleman.....................ccceeeeeeees *W. R. Burton, °17
ee ice een *W. R. Burton, 717
UUEOGEL, [Ab ER. 0 Ts cissoconMinhsamapinansnnail Edmund D. Campbell, ’18
Campbell, Thornton Wilson............ *Malcolm D. Campbell, ’05
CAT MUCOACL, TORI... coocscesnangers=esl H. St. G. T. Carmichael, ’99
Carr, Robert ELGmrell,. J fo.cccceccctbereosisesnsses Robert Howell Carr, ’23
I BP a a ies an etetineeiieciieiats Philo Coco, ’21
Collins, Lewis Preston, ITI........ Lewis Preston Collins, II, ’20
Cook, John Wilson, ITI.................... John Wilson Cook, Jr., 719
Cosby, W. Randolph, Jr..............cssseees W. Randolph Cosby, ’26
celal aiases William J. Cox, °17
Ce I aa cshccnl George L. Coyle, ’12
Ta le ses reel George L. Coyle, °12
SE ROI ss” Tn. csthocesthabanamimamaniagel James N. Daniel, ’12
I Ba at cas contamina *R. B. Davenport, ’24
I ae aac B. A. Davis, Jr., ’20
TT QO. C. Dawkins, Jr., ’27
SOUT Ble icc skre Lidés thames sentadabanreatiieaadas Dr. C. J. Devine, °16
RN LRN TN oo eas adscencedevvernstaraniiais Robert C. Dow, °12
UE, CPTI PR, leather are carthecdeccenenscets3itnd James Rhea Fain, °19
PUURE Fs iiesccecss cise weceicacestewines riecrsvanheices J. M. Farrar, Jr., ’14
Fellers, Stanford L., Jr............. Judge Stanford L. Fellers, °13
PON OE, COI ID Dore ccoccccececocnsgesspecdesss *Charles Daniel Forrer, ’93
Frantz, Virgil Lanier, Jr................00. Virgil Lanier Frantz, ’28
Be SEGRE RE BT a, ns cshesmtettidinetcinsiteseivenees Gus A. Fritchie, ’19
Gilliam, Fontaine Johnson............ Frank Johnson Gilliam, °17
Ghavow, Charles: S.,° 381.50... e ae C. S. Glasgow, ’09
Cintas Branca Pisin es iia C. S. Glasgow, ’09
CRise Pheinas Ra an. kh Carter Glass, Jr., °13
Godwin, James Matthew, Jr......... James Matthew Godwin, ’08
eet: SEER Sar Sieh aes C. W. Gooch, Jr., ’15
Grosvenor, C. Niles, ITI.................. C. Niles Grosvenor, Jr., ’12
Piiete: s Tien Plrsinh. 5 25s atic. eset: teas *Benjamin Haden, 713
Hagan, William Campbell..........0.0...... Dr. Hugh J. Hagan, °10

Son Father
Fiarman, Jares W., J ei..ss<ciscsscanmebesass James W. Harman, ’04
Harman, Samuel Laird..................cc0c. James W. Harman, ’04
Flarris, Lican OW .; Ff. .........dscdeb-ck.ckcbabe Leon W. Harris, °15
Haw, George: E.., °}i.....idditiesnusociaee George E. Haw, ’04
Rash), « Ehertyr: Big: Fics. ccicicsiniviini deca Henry K. Hill, ’25
FESR Femme Ciispensevsssvesbisiissiehsbintcalinsanalae James M. Hitz, ’14
Holland, William S......................Robert Edward Holland, 16
Faupoend, Ctvies (..... cise Dr. T. Brandon Hubbard, ’06
Fevers: Curtis ©, 19, .c:isususetncanine Curtis C. Humphris, °17
FL VERBOM, Be Wi og Bisiccse<cackusnalinanncaeee Richard W. Hynson, ’08
JAMO Tee Bis ie vesenseccecenttadiecesdcdeting eee R. Bleakley James, °22
JORUROG SD . Cha. Piers cacipsiecuce eae Frederick S. Johnson, ’11
Johnson, Lucius Edward................cc0 Lucius C. Johnson, ’28
Baylor, FlowWats.c.cccc.cctvseccscssistasetesteacaa Omer T. Kaylor, ‘11
Kaylor, 0. 'T., Jr. aici ae Omer T. Kaylor, ‘11
King, W- ‘Courtney; Jr... eatabiaan W. Courtney King, 719
Rivksatrické, ‘T: S., Jv. ..c.05525 dae Thomas §. Kirkpatrick, °13
Latture; “Willian 9.200205. aa Rupert N. Latture, °15
Lee, Robert. ©. TV 0066000.0.00 Ae Dr. G. Bolling Lee, ’93
Lenot’ GS Reo... cc eee E. B. Lemon, ’11
LCWIB, ' TRICCTIONL, ..c00cce0csicscscedsecdebaentabtion Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., °16
Lewis, Reuben A., ITT........5........c00005. Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., 716
LOG; Frame, Ji ic cocci cccevecscelccpsessnshsaovebeceeneeea Frank Love, ’21
McClintock, Everett M...................... Oliver W. McClintock, ’23
McClintock, O. W., Jr.............ccceeeee Oliver W. McClintock, ’23
MdGets 4. Ws GR e.. Kenton H. McCoy, 715
McDonald, Richard Reese..................... *O. L. McDonald, 712
McKay, Herbert Gifford:..i:0..i.26cs00GR *K. I. McKay, ’04
DE GROG, BE DG PE Aids. cdbetcedc ta Madison Dryden McKee, 710
McKenzie, William L,., Jr...............cceee. W. Lynn McKenzie, ’20
McMurran, Richard Epes.................. *Lewis A. McMurran, ’07
MceNeef Selden: Gi J tinass..icts. ies Selden S. McNeer, °16
Malone, Kirby Wertt...............cc000 Baynard Lawton Malone, ’24
Maynard, William H., Jr...............00000 William H. Maynard, ’26
We ite, Fe MEBICE Fi ii cntpiscyih-cdaeediotind J. Maurice Miller, ’15
Moyler, James Edward, Jr............. James Edward Moyler, ’21
Murphy, Paul J. B., Jr............... Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy, 714
Myers, Wentworth F., Jr................. Wentworth F. Myers, ’20
Cage. TOO URGE. «ciiesucr-ccsseen: Judge William Henry Oast, 715
Cask. Wiaalipet FT oj. 3o i ids teicisocken, Judge William Henry Oast, ’15
Patterson, Robert G..................0 Dr. C. Houston Patterson, °19
Paxton, Matthew W., III............ Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., 718
PGSDIES; TREO Y. Cy inc. .copcestceonnsannoseceenend Henry Edwin Peeples, 713
Petess:: Tietheré. G..) Fics conwicdenccilinoes Herbert G. Peters, °17
Pisvee, sacar . ARO Soc .cccsiasensiaennstteeenl Isadore Pizitz, ’24

 

 

Leaving for Freshman Camp

[10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Fraternity Rushing at its Height

 

Son Father
Pleasants, Erros Rogers, Jr......... *Enos Rogers Pleasants, 718
Ce ee ease Lamar Polk, ’15
PN A a ee csvanhtvenhenets *Andrew J. Power, ’04
Prete NOE Tis di cnnlshetccangecpevesenscosedeny Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, ’11
PE CRUE GE cede cddennntih ococscopetssepeies Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, ’11
PRE V0 MLAASTD:, Bn sci bios codiagnci quencedacceniins Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, ’11
PRRs Sar, Ans colin aesintcled coieaosbassiets bot hodlgsiesi Junius W. Pulley, °13
Raftery, John Champe..............sscseccssses William C. Raftery, ’16
Riddick, Walter G., Jr............00+ Judge Walter G. Riddick, ’05
Robbins, Edmund Carpentet................ *Joseph C. Robbins, ’20
Reston, Fe, Por a tisscsids cine vcunstigaahices J. Frank Rushton, ’23
Ci CS asia As cinteapinsbhen teeta Herman A. Sacks, ’11
Schneider, Thomas E., Jr............. Thomas Erwin Schneider, ’24
OE ee i oe dastanleelaniien Elwood H. Seal, 716
Silverateth,. RODGrt: FF iis.cd..ccscossccccssesbeccecesess *Sam Silverstein, ’17
Ser ON Pia, Fi csnstasertagedaistanseannphees *Sam Silverstein, °17
Smith, Douglas Magrudet............ Judge Herbert G. Smith, 717
a ii cilia Ray S. Smith, ’14
Snyder, Clovis Marene................0000e Harry Edgar Snyder, ’18
Sonpetia: Tobit: BSc iis. caccseeew John H. Sorrells, ’18
Semele. Ka icvek cicegecinacanh clean *Dr. Clifford Sperow, ’96
Stewie t,, Demie ii) Posaiencccwthsstinetsineistinned Dean B. Stewart, ’18
ee TR ial hi cralienes iil *Frank Cover Stipes, 19
Stoltz, Irwin William, Jr.................... Irwin William Stoltz, ’24
Strickler, Glem wad nc: <sctssciseisi sccquecutnincbicees John O. Strickler, ’27
Sutherland, Horace F., Jr.....*Judge Horace F. Sutherland, *17
Testy, Bland, J tidcigecsic-csenstaviptob capa deensiebiies Bland Terry, ’14
Townsend, William H..................... Fred DuPre Townsend, ’20
Trier) VU iat VE og ele ssn ssesecahteenncnensentorees William W. Trigg, °12
Trundle, FRM si cadence A. Dawson Trundle, ’04
Tucker, J. Randolph, Jr............... John Randolph Tucker, ’00
Turner, Norfleet Ragland...................ccceseees Norfleet Turner, ’24
Vicars, Joseph McFarland............ Marshall Walker Vicars, ’23
Wales; La wrene Ba; J fiscccsiccccesccccsccsctrs Lawrence B. Wales, °15
WH ERD «U0 ca, oS kcscstieddedh-sctestinctie *Dr. John W. Warner, ’03
Wash, Thomas Atwood..................008 Dr. Atwood M. Wash, ’15
VU GRE RRR UU iicckedts cndonsevstsnvehacens Joe Blackburn Watts, °12
Wiis "Fees Foose Dr. Thomas Preston White, °17
WU aati tele 00s, PO iat hadekie chek cncdvacecenasatversames Millar B. White, ’25
VU Bea We PENRO “CS yiccblateicciveseccosgurcocongiisbcedéces Millar B. White, ’25
WEBB TR GI,, BBE Cecscartpseavertocssdece Judge Kennon C. Whittle, 14
Williams, Donald Kingsley................ John Leslie Williams, ’17
WERE, eta at Fe oarceacnceeetes vaccdigpho sts opie *Stanley Williams, ’18
Williamson, Adrian, Jf............cssscccssesess Adrian Williamson, 713
Winborne, Thomas Packard.............. Roger M. Winborne, ’11

Son Father
wee T. Aia  F0 i cee was James Arthur Wood, ’24
W OGG rut? Brie Fan Fiiiiicctieccossteicoceeecees Bruce F. Woodruff, ’16
Yaties, Richart M.,: 30..4...ccdn-.«.. Richard M. Yankee, ’26
Gay i le en ea Damon G. Yerkes, °12
eugene

*Denotes alumnus deceased

 

Old Landmark Demolished

After careful consultation with various architects and
builders it was decided that reclaiming “The Old Blue” was
not practicable. The building has now been demolished and
the ground on which it stood made a part of the campus of
Washington and Lee.

Part of the building was standing in 1819 when the prop-
erty was purchased by Jacob Clyce who made extensive ad-
ditions and operated a tavern known as the “Exchange Hotel.”
It was probably during this time that the lovely front of the
building with its double porches supported by slender Ionian
pillars and its lunette in the attic above was built. This por-
tion of the building was the English basement type with
parlors on the second floor, and in these parlors were hand-
some hand-carved mantels. The tavern faced the “Great
Road” at the bottom of the steep hill leading to the little
village of Lexington, and was a convenient stopping place
for travelers, up and down The Valley, being a day’s jour-
ney from Staunton on the north and Fincastle to the south.
Records still in existence indicate that the weary traveler
could refresh himself with brandy at 25 cents a quart, and a
bed “with clean sheets” at 12% cents a night. The first
V.M.I. cadet class was quartered in the hotel in 1839 while
the barracks was being built and a hundred years ago it was
the center of the “gay” social life of Lexington’s Scotch-Irish
gentry.

In 1871 Blue Hotel, so named because it was painted a
gentle blue gray, was bought by Washington and Lee and
for many years was used as a student dormitory. Each room
was equipped with a wood-burning stove and an oil-burning
lamp, the fuel furnished by the students. In recent years it
has fallen into disrepair and was not demolished until it be-
came apparent that it could not be renovated economically.

 

The “Old Blue” Is No More

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Washington and Lee’s New Dean

’ By Bill Bien, ’49

Washington and Lee’s new dean of the University is a
man with cosmopolitan ideas.

Dr. James Graham Leyburn, who was installed here in
September, already has demonstrated his dedication to the
goal of building Washington and Lee into one of the greatest
privately endowed institutions, not only of the South, but of
the entire nation, in its third century of educational endeavor.

Respectful of the traditions and heritage which are the
bulwark of this sixth oldest University in the United States,
Dean Leyburn believes that they should
be the basis of his projected plan to ad-
just the curriculum to fit the problems of
these modern years. He feels that it is
here, where the faculty and students form
a close-knit campus group, that he can
best realize his ideal of an institution de-
voted primarily to educational achieve-
ment and stimulation.

Speaking at a recent Faculty Discus-
sion Club meeting, the dean unfolded his
plans for enabling Washington and Lee
to assume a role of intellectual leadership.
His ideas include stepping up the mini-
mum entrance standards, developing a
still closer contact between teachers and
students, encouraging students with un-
usual ability to do their major study in a
field of education rather than within the
narrow confines of a single subject.

He favors breaking the lock-step type
of education so prevalent in some higher
institutions today through a closer per-
sonal student-faculty bond and through
increased individual research, for he rea-
sons that the most fruitful learning is
that which is the result of “excited conversation,” curiosity,
and initiative.

As a corollary to this ideal, Dr. Leyburn also favors a
realistic type of educational system, wherein students have
an incentive to work for comprehension and understanding,
rather than for grades as an end in themselves. This, he feels,
could be accomplished through comprehensive examinations
given at wider intervals tying together various phases of
study, in addition to periodical tests of a factual nature. In
addition Dr. Leyburn advocates a thesis requirement in every
department, to spur private reasearch.

Dean Leyburn believes in his plans because he is cognizant
of the increasing tempo and complexity of life today. He as-
serts that “world problems are so complicated that only
university men can cope with them.”

Introduced to the entire faculty-student group and a
large number of alumni from all parts of the country last
April at the Washington-Cincinnati convocation, Dr. Ley-
burn stressed the global obligation resting upon America’s
university men—*‘the aristocrats of the present age’—in all
occupational and cultural fields, saying that “the whole world
looks to America as it has never looked to any other’nation.
World peace must rest upon sympathetic understanding.

 

Dean James G. Leyburn

Who better than a university scholar could promote this
understanding?”

At that time, Dr. Leyburn told his audience that he saw
no paradox in speaking of an aristocracy in a professed de-
mocracy, “for the people of the United States have always
readily given their admiration and loyalty to superior quali-
ties of mind and spirit.”

Dr. Leyburn’s interest in watching Washington and Lee
assume the sceptre of academic leadership may be due to his
southern antecedents. Born in West Vir-
ginia, he was graduated with honors from
Trinity College (Duke University), at 18,
and a year later completed the course
there leading to the master of arts degree.

Speaking in the softly modulated man-
ner of the old South, Dr. Leyburn’s words
carry a flavor of consequence which im-
presses visitors to the dean’s office. They
are surprised to learn that he is only five-
feet-ten tall, after an initial impression
that he is a man of unusual stature. And
they come away marvelling at his youth-
ful enthusiasm, which belies his prema-
turely grey hair.

Washington and Lee students and
alumni have noted with amused interest
his teaching appointment to Hollins Col-
lege, at the age of twenty, following a
year at all-male Princeton University. Dr.
Leyburn was professor of Sociology for
two years at Hollins, then retired to the
comparative safety of Princeton again,
still single.

Following this stint at Hollins and
Princeton, he went to Yale University,
where he studied further graduate courses, and where he has
taught continuously until last year, except for a leave of ab-
sence during the war as principal officer of a lend-lease mis-
sion to South Africa. While at Yale, Dr. Leyburn won the
John Anisfield Award for the best scholarly book on race re-
lations with his volume, The Haitian People.

His background and knowledge of world affairs would
seem to make Dr. Leyburn’s assumption of the deanship at
Washington and Lee a most auspicious beginning for the
University’s entrance into its third hundred years. His in-
terest in problems of the modern day, transcending conti-
nental limits, has led him to Canada, 10 European, 5 Latin-
American, and 13 South African countries. He is a proficient
student of six foreign languages.

Completely—one of his proudest possessions is a tiny
charm given to him as a member of the Pierson College, Yale,
inter-college squash team—Dr. Leyburn is recognized as
one of the leading sociologists in the United States. In addi-
tion to his prize-winning The Haitian People, he has written
many books, including titles ranging from Music Book in
Balubu (a Bantu language) for Congo school children, to
Handbook to Ethnography. He is also the author of innumer-

(Continued on page 16)

 

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

With the Local Chapters

ATLANTA, GEORGIA

At noon on October 6, Dr. Gaines addressed the Atlanta,
Georgia, Rotary Club, speaking to an audience of some 300
of the leading business and professional men of the city, in-
cluding a goodly sprinkling of Washington and Lee Alumni.
An alumnus writes: “Dr. Gaines’ address «was simply mag-
nificent, and was said by many Rotarians to have been the
greatest address ever heard by the Atlanta Rotary Club.
He made a tremendous and profound impression on all those
who heard him, and is bound to have done Washington and
Lee an untold amount of good in this territory.”

Dr. Gaines next appeared on a radio program, entitled
“Views of The News,” sponsored by the Atlanta Journal

over its 50-thousand-watt station, WSB. He was interviewed.

on this program by George Goodwin, an alumnus and a
feature writer on the Atlanta Journal. Statewide coverage
was thus obtained through this powerful station.

In the evening the local chapter held an alumni dinner at
the Piedmont Driving Club, in charge of an Arrangement
Committee, consisting of Messrs. Carl Carson Moore, ’13,
Chairman; George Evans Goodwin, Jr., ’39; and Herbert
Kelly Garges, Jr., "40. The dinner was attended by close to
100 alumni, wives, and guests, the latter including several
non-alumni parents of boys now at Washington and Lee.
Honor guests of the occasion were Mr. Harrison Jones,
Chairman of the Board of the Coca Cola Company, and Mr.
George Biggers, President of the Atlanta Journal, who are
the two local members of the National Sponsors Committee
of the Bicentennial Program. Immediately after dinner the
sound-color movie of the University was shown, which was
well received by all, and then Dr. Gaines made an inspiring
talk for about twenty minutes.

Officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows:
Willis Everett, ’20, recently returned from the Nazi war
criminal trials, President; Herbert K. Garges, Jr., *40 and
George Goodwin, '39, Vice-Presidents; and T. Hal Clarke, ’38,
Secretary-Treasurer.

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

The Baltimore, Maryland, local alumni chapter held its
annual dinner on October 31, with approximately 25 alumni
present. Lawrence W. Galloway, °43, was elected president
of the chapter for the coming year and David Lewis, °46,
secretary-treasurer.

W. Carroll Mead, ’25, regional chairman of the Bicenten-

nial drive, outlined the purposes of the campaign and urged .

the participation of all alumni.

BECKLEY, WEST VIRGINIA

The New River and Greenbriar Alumni Association Chap-
ter held a dinner meeting on October 3 at the Black Knight
Country Club, Beckley, West Virginia, the evening before
the Washington and Lee-University of West Virginia foot-
ball game in Charleston. The dinner was given in honor of
the Washington and Lee football team which had stopped
at Beckley en route to Charleston, for dinner and a short
practice. A feature of the dinner was the presentation by the

local chapter of a wrist watch to Capt. Dick Smith, Director
of Athletics, in appreciation of his twenty-five years of ser-
vice to Washington and Lee athletics. Harry Moran, ’13,
president of the chapter, presided.

BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

The Bicentennial campaign of the University got under-
way in Birmingham on October 7, under auspicious condi-
tions, when 67 alumni and guests enjoyed the privilege of
hearing Dr. Gaines and seeing the first showing in Birming-
ham of the recently completed sound-color motion picture
of the Washington and Lee campus. The dinner and meet-
ing were held at the Tutwiler Hotel.

Following the showing of the picture, which was enthu-
siastically received, Dr. Gaines addressed the meeting. The
work of the local campaign committee, headed by Henry P.
Johnston, ’'29, manager of the local radio station WSGN, was
thus given an inspirational launching.

Henry P. Johnston, ’29, president of the local chapter, pre-
sided at the meeting. Distinguished guests of the occasion
were President George R. Stuart of Birmingham-Southern
College; Major Hartwell Davis, President of Howard Col-
lege; and out of town alumni C. T. Chenery, ’09, of New
York and Basil Manly, 06, of Washington, D. C., respective-
ly chairman of the board and vice-president of the Southern
Natural Gas Company.

BRISTOL, TENNESSEE

Col. Milton B. Rogers, executive director of the Wash-
ington and Lee Bicentennial fund campaign, was the speak-
er at a meeting of Southwest Virginia alumni at the General
Shelby Hotel on November 7. Col. Rogers asked the support
of alumni and others interested in the school to take an ac-
tive part in the campaign. Carl B. Knight, retiring president
of the chapter, presided at the meeting, and A. Carter
Crymble, of Kingsport, was elected president of the Appala-
chian chapter for 1948. The technicolor-sound movie “Two
Centuries of Service,” was shown. Approximately 40 mem-
bers of the association, their wives and ladies were present.

CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

The annual fall smoker of the Charleston, West Virginia,
alumni chapter was held on the eve of the Washington and
Lee-University of West Virginia game, October 4, at the
Edgewood Country Club. 100 alumni from Charleston and
vicinity were present. Lee Kenna, ’40, chapter president, pre-
sided. Coach Art Lewis and Cy Young, from the University,
addressed the meeting.

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

The first fall luncheon meeting of the Chicago area Wash-
ington and Lee alumni was held on September 4 in the Mer-
chants and Manufacturers Club in the Merchants Mart. The
meeting was hurriedly arranged and only some ten or twelve
alumni were present. It was decided to have a regular lunch-
eon meeting every month.

[13 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT

Dean Frank J. Gilliam was the speaker at an alumni din-
ner meeting in Hartford, Connecticut, on November 2, at
which 35 alumni were present. Chairman Berkeley Cox pre-
sided and Honorary-Chairman W. Ross McCain, president
of the Aetna Fire Insurance Company, introduced the speak-
er. One of the high points of the meeting was the announce-
ment that a $2,000 endowment policy made out to Washing-
ton and Lee by an alumnus 20 years ago will mature in De-
cember, in time to get an extra $500 from the General Edu-
cation Board.

JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

Dr. James G. Leyburn, dean of Washington and Lee, was
the speaker at a gathering of alumni and friends of the Uni-
versity at the George Washington Hotel, Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, on November 12. Henry W. Dew, ’11, regional chairman
of the Bicentennial Anniversary, introduced the speaker, who
explained the need of the University to maintain the high
standards of the school. Local sponsors for the campaign in-
clude J. Leroy Dart, Senator Scott M. Loftin, Rabbi Israel
L. Kaplan, Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, the Rev. Valentine Lee,
D.D., Judge Bayard B. Shields, J. Grover Taylor, George
Gibbs, Alfred D. Stevens, Richard P. Daniel and Mainhard
H. Meyerson.

The colored sound-motion picture of the University was
shown and both the picture and Dean Leyburn’s address
were enthusiastically received.

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

Ethan Allen, ’31, president of the New York alumni chap-
ter, presided at a meeting of the chapter on October 1, held
at the Columbia University Club. Over 100 alumni were
present, the largest gathering of alumni ever held in New
York. The committee on arrangements, headed by Roy J.
Grimley, ’21, had done an excellent job. Dean Clayton E.
Williams, °12, of the Washington and Lee Law School, ad-
dressed the meeting, and the sound-color motion picture “Two
Centuries of Service,” recently completed, was shown. Gos-
sett McRae, ’27, was elected president of the chapter for
the coming year, and Emmett Poindexter, ’20, secretary-
treasurer.

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Richmond, Virginia, alumni met for luncheon at the
Thomas Jefferson Hotel on Saturday, September 27, prior to
the Washington and Lee-University of Richmond game,
played that night, with sixty alumni present. Dr. A. M. Wash,
president of the local chapter, presided. Coach Art Lewis
Dyke Norman, acting captain of the football team, and Cy
Young were present from the University.

ROANOKE, VIRGINIA

William B. Bagbey, ’38, president of the chapter, presided
at a dinner meeting of the Roanoke, Virginia, alumni, held at
the Hotel Roanoke on November 12, with 60 Washington
and Lee alumni present. Charles P. Light, of the Washing-
ton and Lee Law School, Coach Art Lewis and his assistant
coaches, Carl Wise and John Jaffurs, addressed the meeting.
The sound-color motion picture, ““Two Centuries of Service,”
was shown. Officers of the chapter for the coming year were
elected as follows: Clifton Woodrum, Jr., °33, president,
Tom Martin, °41, vice-president, and Chester Palmer, ’38,
secretary-treasurer.

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

About 65 alumni, wives, and parents of students now in
school held a dinner meeting at the Congress Hotel in St.
Louis, Missouri, on the evening of December 2. The meet-
ing was arranged and presided over by John L. Patterson.
Joe Long, chairman of the Bicentennial Committee for the
St. Louis area, discussed plans for the campaign. The movie,
“Two Centuries of Service” was shown after dinner, fol-
lowed by an informal talk by Dean Frank J. Gilliam on the
general situation at Washington and Lee at present.

UPPER POTOMAC CHAPTER

On November 21, 25 alumni of the Upper Potomac chap-
ter of Washington and Lee alumni met for dinner at the
Y.M.C. A. in Cumberland, Maryland. Billy Wilson, presi-
dent of the chapter, presided. The sound-color movie, “Two
Centuries of Service,” was shown.

WAYNESBORO, VIRGINIA

Alumni of Waynesboro and Augusta County held a dinner
meeting at Hotel General Wayne, Waynesboro, Virginia, on
October 22. Moving pictures of the Washington and Lee-
Marines football game were shown to some twenty-seven
alumni and their wives. Final action was taken on the con-
solidation of the Waynesboro and Staunton chapters to form
The Augusta County Chapter, but election of officers for the
new chapter was postponed for a later meeting.

President Gaines has addressed Bicentennial gatherings
this fall in fourteen major cities. Attended by alumni, par-
ents of students now in school here, friends of the Univer-
sity and guests, these meetings signalized the opening of the
regional Bicentennial campaign in each area.

Each meeting centered around the President’s address,
which followed a showing of the Alumni Association’s sound-
color motion picture of Washington and Lee, “Two Cen-
turies of Service.” Most of them were dinner meetings and
were arranged by the chairman of the local Bicentennial
committee.

Another series of meetings will begin immediately after
the Christmas holidays and will continue through the winter.

Among the meetings attended by Dr. Gaines this fall
were:

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA

On September 26 about 60 alumni and guests attended a
meeting held at the Hotel Warwick in Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. I. M. Scott, Regional Chairman, presided, with the as-
sistance of F. P. Crew, president of the local chapter.

LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA

James R. Caskie was host to about 60 alumni at the Lynch-
burg Country Club, Lynchburg, Virginia, on October 13.
Edward S. Graves, president of the chapter, presided and Dr.
Gaines and Sdmuel H. Williams, Regional Chairman, were
the speakers.

BLUEFIELD, WEST VIRGINIA

Ex-Governor George C. Perry, member of the University
Board of Trustees, presided at a meeting of about 70 alumni
and guests held at Hotel West Virginia, Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia, on October 23. Dr. Gaines was introduced by Supreme
Court Justice, A. C. Buchanan, and Huston St. Clair, mem-

[ 14 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ber of the University Board of Trustees and Co-Chairman
for the region, was also a speaker.

NORFOLK, VIRGINIA

On November 10, Gilbert Swink, president of the local
chapter, presided at a meeting held at the City Club, Nor-
folk, Virginia, attended by about 90 alumni and guests. Dr.
Gaines was introduced by Judge Richard B. Spindle.

DALLAS, TEXAS

Rosser J. Coke was host at a dinner held in the Texas
Room of Hotel Baker, Dallas, Texas, on November 17, for
98 citizens of Dallas, including some local alumni. After an
invocation by Dr. Humphrey Lee, President of Southwest-
ern Methodist University, Mr. Coke introduced the speaker.

FORT WORTH, TEXAS

About 60 men were the guests of Gaylord C. Stone and
Wyatt C. Hedrick at the Fort Worth Country Club, Fort
Worth, Texas, on November 18. Mr. Hedrick presided and
introduced the speaker.

HOUSTON, TEXAS

Melvin E. Kurth entertained about 60 alumni and friends
of the University at the Houston Country Club, Houston,
Texas, on November 19. Mr. Kurth, Regional Chairman, pre-
sided and introduced Dr. Gaines.

SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA

On November 21 about 70 alumni and guests met at the
Country Club, Shreveport, Louisiana, at which Robert L.
Jeter, president of the local chapter, presided.

MONROE, LOUISIANA

Some 85 alumni, their wives and guests, from Monroe,
Bastrop, Alexandria, Louisiana, and El Dorado, Arkansas,
met for luncheon in Monroe, Louisiana, on November 22.
James D. Sparks, Co-Chairman for the area presided.

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY

On December 1, 82 alumni and guests met at the Lafayette
Hotel, in Lexington, Kentucky. Joe Arnold, president of the
local chapter, presided. Guests of honor were: President-
Emeritus F. L. McVey, of the University of Kentucky, Presi-
dent Raymond McLain of Transylvania, Dr. and Mrs. Cole,
Mrs. Mason and Mrs. Parrish.

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

At the Brown Hotel in Louisville, Kentucky, on Decem-
ber 2, 90 alumni and guests held a meeting with Peel Rivers,
local chapter president, presiding. After an invocation by F.
A. Sampson, R. P. Hobson introduced the speaker. President
H. L. Donovan, of the University of Kentucky, was the
guest of honor.

What Others Say About Us...

SERVING THE AMERICAN SPIRIT

Even the brief and casual visitor, turning off for a little
time from the Shenandoah Highway in Virginia, senses at
once the living power of tradition, the quiet and yet vital
strength of spirit, which pervades the campus of Washington

 

and Lee University at Lexington. Seeing the simple, lovely,
white-columned buildings, in their setting of sweeping lawn
and quiet, encompassing trees, one feels that here indeed is
fitting embodiment of a great heritage—a deep and vital
spiritual reality.

To this place for generations young men have come to be-
come partakers and bearers of this tradition and spirit.

To it return mature graduates to be renewed in old loyal-
ties and fidelities.

Even passersby are unforgettably touched by the union of
undying past and living present which can be so strongly felt
here.

* * * * x

It was almost 200 years ago—in 1749—that the little classi-
cal school which was to develop into Washington and Lee
University was founded at Greenville. It was reestablished in
1776 at Timber Ridge and called Liberty Hall Academy. In
1782 it was moved to Lexington and chartered as a college.

In 1796 George Washington made an endowment equiv-
alent to $50,000 and it was given his name.

Robert E. Lee was its president from 1865 to 1870, and
after his death his name was added to its title.

Now, completing its second century, this institution is
planning for the future. Great traditions, living institutions,
must grow if they are to survive and remain strong.

Washington and Lee is not seeking growth in mere size.
Its purpose—which can be served best only by close personal
relations—has been and still is to contribute its utmost to the
development of men imbued with the ideals and principles of
justice, freedom, political, social and religious conscience and
individual responsibility. Serving that purpose appropriately
in this day requires substantial additions to the University’s
resources. Devoted alumni and friends of the institution are
now seeking $1,000,000 for general endowment, $1,000,000 for
memorial scholarships in honor of Washington and Lee men
who gave their lives in World War II, and $1,000,000 for
necessary buildings.

* * * k *

In Alabama many of these alumni and friends are now
uniting in this high endeavor. They who respond will be con-
tributing to the strengthening of a flowing source and a lofty
service of the American spirit. —Birmingham News

PEACE-SERVING WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

In September, 1949, Washington and Lee University at
Lexington (Virginia) will begin its third century. It there-
fore ranks among the country’s oldest continuing higher edu-
cational institutions.

Bearing the names of two great Virginia soldiers, who hold
honored places in the Nation’s history, the University has
earned its own distinctive standing in the educational scheme.
It has worthy traditions to uphold. Founded originally as
Augusta Academy (1749), the school became Washington
Academy (1782) when the master of Mount Vernon en-
dowed it with $50,000—a considerable fortune in that day. It
became Washington College in 1813, and Washington and
Lee University after General Robert E. Lee had served as
its president from October, 1865, until his death in 1870.

The University has been distinctive for its emphasis on
the humanities, while not neglecting the practical sciences;
for pioneering in student self-government and for requiring
four years work in hygiene and physical training for gradu-
ation.

The University’s post-bellum president gave it ideals and

(Continued on page 16)

[15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

John M. Glenn, ’79

Alumnus Contributes Rare Books

“Russell Sage Foundation: 1907-1946” is the title of two
volumes published November 24, covering the first forty years
of the Foundation, a gift copy of which has been received
by the Alumni Office. The Russell Sage Foundation was es-
tablished in 1907 by Mrs. Russell Sage “for the improvement
of social and living conditions in the United States of Am-
erica.” The senior author of the history, John M. Glenn,
served the Foundation as general director from 1907 to 1931,
and is now a Trustee.

Mr. Glenn received his M.A. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1879, and an LL.D. in 1907. He has recently given
to the Cyrus Hall McCormick Library some 225 books from
his personal library, consisting for the most part of belles
lettres and history. The collection is a very valuable one, as
it contains many out-of-print and hard-to-find books, as well
as many first editions.

 

Washington and Lee’s New Dean
(Continued from page 12)

able monographs and magazine articles which have been
published in such periodicals as “The Yale Review,” American
Sociological Review, Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science.

Dean Leyburn has been elected to such honor groups and
learned societies as Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, American
Sociological Society, and the American Geographical Society,

and has had papers read to the members of these groups.
Washington and Lee students will have an opportunity to
hear him in classes, since he will take time from administra-
tive duties to conduct courses in the Sociology department
here.

Although not completely oblivious to the advantages of
married life, Dr. Leyburn enjoys his life as a bachelor in
his home on the Washington and Lee campus. He enjoys
music tremendously and plays the piano often during leisure
hours.

Students of the University are already looking to Dean
Leyburn as a respected friend of the campus community—one
who is interested in their affairs and also in the University
providing them with the essentials of life in the twentieth
century.

Thus people are beginning to say that while Washington
and Lee has had many illustrious deans, it may have never
had a more interested or capable man than Dr. Leyburn.

 

What Others Say About Us...

(Continued from page 15)

standards which have been religiously maintained. General
Lee held that this Nation and all the nations could build
bulwarks against war by cultivating the arts of peace.

If men could only learn to put as much enthusiasm, energy
and teamwork into peace-time constructive labors as they
put into war-time destruction, an era of good will could be
achieved.

It is the University’s aim—looking to its new century—
Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president, explains, to carry on in that
spirit—"to implement the peace with vigor, courage and at-
tractiveness”; to train workers in “all the civilized activities
which flourish in peace.”

Washington and Lee University holds that a world in
which educated men devote their energy and skill co-opera-
tively to the concerns of peace, always seeking lofty objec-
tives, “will be the sort of world which will have the best
chance to avoid war.” —San Antonio Express

 

BOOK BY DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH

Appearing on book shelves on October 4, was an interest-
ing volume of selected speeches of Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
entitled “This Troubled Century,” published by the Univer-
sity of North Carolina Press.

Dr. Smith, president of Washington and Lee University
from 1912 to 1929, now president emeritus of the University,
is living in Greensboro, North Carolina. The book is divided
into five sections and covers Dr. Smith’s long span of 88
years. The first section is devoted to educational problems
and contains a number of his well-known early addresses, in-
cluding his speech on Robert E. Lee, the educator, and his
inaugural address as president of Washington and Lee. The
other sections deal with addresses on social and moral prob-
lems, “Science and its Influence,” religion and “America To-
day and Tomorrow.”

 

W. and L. HOST TO EDUCATORS

The University was host to the Policy Commission of the
Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools,
representing 11 Southern states, at a conference August 21-25
at Natural Bridge Hotel.

The delegates were welcomed by Dr. Gaines in an address
at Lee Chapel, following which they made a tour of the cam-
pus and visited V. M. I.

[ 16 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

New Faculty Apartment Building

On the Campus

NEW FACULTY APARTMENTS

The Washington and Lee faculty apartment building lo-
cated at the corner of Estill and Washington streets is now
completed and the eight apartments occupied. The two-story
building is constructed of cinder blocks painted a pale yellow.
The entrance is of modern design built of brick and glass
blocks.

* * Bs * *
BICENTENNIAL SPEAKER

Ik\x-Ambassador Alexander W. Weddell, distinguished
U.S. career diplomat, was the speaker at the first Bicenten-
nial series at a University assembly on October 20, in Dore-
mus Gymnasium. This assembly initiated a series of addresses
by speakers of national importance who will be brought to
the campus as a preliminary to the Bicentennial program dur-
ing the 1948-1949 school year. A native of Richmond, Vir-
ginia, Ambassador Weddell entered the foreign service in
1910 and has held many important posts including that of
Ambassador to Argentina from 1933 to 1939, and to Spain
from 1939 to 1942.

k * * *k x

TROUBADOURS

“The Front Page,” the first Troubadour production of the
current season, began a five-night series on December 9 in
the Troubadour Theatre, starring Judy McNeer, Jack Scheifly
and Wesley Marsh in leading roles. Lesser parts were taken
by ‘Troubadour old-hands Peggy Boykin, Bill Romaine,
Kverett Easter, Joe Moffatt, Russ Thomes and Jim Brew-
ster. Also appearing in female roles were Lela Nance Mof-
fatt, wife of English Professor, Dr. James Strong Moffatt,
Mary Pearson and Jean Moseley.

W. and L. ON THE FREEDOM TRAIN

The letter which General Robert E. Lee wrote the trustees
of Washington College in 1865 accepting the presidency of
the Lexington school is among the 98 priceless documents
being displayed on the Freedom ‘Train.

x* * * * xX

GLEE CLUB OPENS SEASON

The Glee Club initiated its 1947-1948 season with a con-
cert in Lee Chapel on December 12, the repertoire consisting
of popular and classical music as well as a number of negro
spirituals. Dean Leyburn was the piano soloist.

Paul E. Meadows, director, has announced that in addition
to this concert, the Club will again sing at the traditional
Christmas Candlelight Service to be held in the Robert E.
Lee Memorial Church on December 19, the day before the
beginning of the Christmas vacation. The Club is also ex-
pected to repeat its initial performance at one or more of
the neighboring towns. During the spring, two concerts, to be
joint affairs with nearby girls’ schools, have been tentatively
scheduled.

x S28 4 «4

ODK INITIATES

Representing practically every phase of student life and
six major professions, sixteen Washington and Lee students
and ten prominent Americans, including seven alumni, were
initiated into the Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, fol-
lowing “tapping exercises” in Doremus Gymnasium on No-
vember 14. ODK is a national fraternity, founded on the
Washington and Lee campus on December 3, 1914.

Thomas J. Watson, president of International Business

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Machines, was the speaker. Mr. Watson, Mr. Junius P. Fish-
burn, president of the Times-World Corporation, Roanoke,
Virginia, and Ernest Woodward, member of the Louisville,
Kentucky, law firm of Woodson, Dawson, Hobson and Ful-
ton, were the non-alumni initiates.

The seven alumni who were initiated were: Harvey B.
Apperson, °13, of Richmond, Virginia, Attorney-General of
Virginia; Wyatt C. Hedrick, °10, Architect of Fort Worth,
Texas: Dr. T. Brannon Hubbard, ’06, of Montgomery, Ala-
bama, head of Hubbard Hospital; Arthur W. McCain, ’14, of
New York City, President of the Chase National Bank;
Philip P. Page, ’08, of Chicago, Illinois, Vice-President and
Manager of the Chicago Journal of Commerce; Allen Rush-
ton, ’25, of Birmingham, Alabama, Vice-President of the
Birmingham Ice and Cold Storage Corporation; and John H.
Tucker, °10, of Shreveport, Louisiana, President of the
Louisiana State Law Institute.

Student initiates were: Charles E. Belcher, Joseph E.
Blackburn, Ralph J. Davis, Frederick S. Holley, Walter
Hanes Lancaster, Jr., Bernard Levin, Charles R. McDowell,
Jr., Robert G. Patterson, Walter B. Potter, Charles S. Rowe,
Mark W. Saurs, Benton C. Tolley, Jr., Fred M. Vinson, Jr.,
Edward C. Waddington, Jr., Charles Richard Working, and
Sheppard W. Zinovoy.

x ok oe ok Ox

PLANS FOR FANCY DRESS

Plans for the Fancy Dress Dance Set, January 29, 30 and
31, are maturing and Ralph Davis, set leader, has announced
that Elliot Lawrence, Washington and Lee’s favorite post-
war music maker, will be on the band stand for the entire
three nights. The theme of the Fancy Dress ball will be
“Hampton Court Under Charles II.” Ralph Davis as Charles
II and the Queen, Catherine of Braganya, will reign over what

 

i

TOP: Elaborate Homecoming decorations of the Phi Gams which won
first prize. BOTTOM: McCausland (54) picks up interference as

Washington and Lee rolls over Davidson 32-0.

is expected to be a solid 17th century merrymaking in the
Doremus version of Hampton Court. R. J. “Cubby” Bear, Jr.,
will have general supervision of decorations.

k * * ok Ok

OPENING DANCES

The opening dances on the week-end of November 21-22
were well attended. The Friday night dance was highlighted
by the annual Sophomore Figure, led by Chris Compton, class
president, and on Saturday night the Cotillion Club Figure
was led by Set President, Charlie Rowe. Music for both dances
was furnished by Bob Chester and his orchestra and the
decorations were under the direction of Jake Cheatham, as-
sisted by five upper classmen and pledges from all the fra-
ternity houses on the campus.

x * * x *

JOURNALISM LECTURES

A series of three lectures by visiting speakers, sponsored
by the Lee Journalism Foundation, were held during the
fall semester. On October 6, B. M. McKelway, editor of the
Washington Evening Star, contrasted Russian and American
concepts of the freedom of the press, at a meeting in Wash-
ington Chapel.

Miss Daphne Dailey, former editor of the Bowling Green
Caroline Progress and former president of the Virginia Press
Association, compared the large city papers with those pub-
lished in small towns. She said that “The community paper
is not a small edition of the metropolitan daily .... Everyday
community life has in it the roots of moral courage and
leadership, but likewise the seeds of injury and fear.... The
community newspaper can help determine its direction.”

The third lecturer in the series was Russell A. Applegate,
advertising executive of the Du Pont Company. He spoke on
the piactical aspects and problems of Du Pont ad-
vertising.

ene e- pie®

HOMECOMING

One of Washington and Lee’s greatest Home-
coming celebrations was held on the week-end

a of October 24-25, with an estimated 1200 alumni

in attendance. With Lexington already over-
crowded, the congestion was increased by the
fact that V.M.I1. was also holding its Home-
coming. The festivities began with a “pep rally”
in Doremus Gymnasium followed by a freshman
pajama parade.

Following the football game between Wash-
ington and Lee and Davidson, which is covered
elsewhere, the Alumni Association served a
luncheon in the Student Union Building for 400
alumni and their families. This was the only or-
ganized meeting of the visitors.

Those who had not had enough football later
attended the Virginia Military Institute vs. Vir-
ginia game, while others visited fraternity houses
and wandered over the campus and town, inspect-
ing the gaily decorated fraternity houses, the
best in many years. The first prize, won by the
Phi Gamma Deltas for their lavish creation of -the
“Fiji Circus” was presented at the informal dance
on Saturday night.

Sunday afternoon most of the _ fraternity
houses served buffet meals for those of their
alumni who had stayed over and by Sunday
night Lexington was again back to its quiet
routine.

ers

[18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Big Blue Terminal Men—Ends Hahn, Fahey, Lukens, Saurs, and Crawford

.

Success in 19477 Fall Sports

By Don Murray, *48

The Fall sports season has already seen three brilliant
milestones in the history of Washington and Lee’s athletics.
The gridiron Generals have to date compiled the most suc-
cessful record of any W. and L,. football team in over a
decade, Coach Harry Broadbent revived cross country as an
intercollegiate sport, and for the first time in W. and L,. sports
history a soccer team has represented the Blue against col-
lege opponents...and has walked off with a State Cham-
pionship.

A word about cross country and soccer before recounting
the events of the football season.

‘Renewing a sport which had lain dormant for five years,
Harry Broadbent, whose principal forte is the coaching of
W. and L. wrestlers, produced a team in a few short weeks
of practice...a team that was able to win two of five meets.
After starting the season with a win over Richmond, the
harriers entered a three team meet with VPI and Virginia.
Lack of practice and practice facilities spelled defeat for the
Generals in this and in a subsequent match with Davidson.
Journeying next to Ashland, Virginia, the pacers administered
a defeat to Randolph-Macon by a sizeable score. The last
meet of the season was run in a downpour over the Lexing-

ton “Liberty Hall’ course against Roanoke College, and
here the Blue was beaten in a close race.

Broadbent reported himself well-satisfied with the results
of the season which showed him that he has ample material
for a good cross country team next year. Pete Mitchell, a
red-head from Martinsville, Virginia, captained the harriers.
Broadbent expects great things next year from Mitchell’s
team-mates; Warren Hobson, John Chandler, Buddy Hare,
Ellison Gaulding, Bill Flanagan, Gordon Iler, Bill Stillwell,
Doc Sharer, Bill Marsh, and Forester Taylor.

Turning now to soccer, and one of the most pleasant sur-
prises of the 1947 athletic scene in Lexington, the observer
will find that Washington and Lee holds the Virginia Inter-
collegiate Soccer Championship for this year. Coached by
Norm Lord, who succeeded in generating enough interest in
the student body to locate sufficient men for’ a team, the
booters went through a four game schedule with a record of
three wins and one tie. The only close competitor was Vir-
ginia, the Wahoos being responsible for the tie, a one-one
game, but in the final game of the season our Charlottesville
neighbors were humbled, 2-0 on Wilson Field. The remain-
ing two victories were gained over Roanoke College by

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

scores of 1-0 and 3-1. Lord hopes next year to field an even
better team built around a nucleus of 1947 veterans such as
Bruce Parkinson at goalie, Dave Croyder of New Jersey at
inside-right, Pete Muhlenberg, John Browning, Russ Thomes,
John Schoenfield, and a host of others.

But football occupies the Fall limelight each year, and
this year is no exception. The 1947 Generals have one of the
most potent aerial attacks in the Southern Conference, and
Dick Working, who is quarterback and passer, is, at this writ-
ing, the third ranking back in the “pass completed” depart-
ment of the nation. Throughout the season Working’s passes
have been the most important single factor in the W. and L.
attack. Art Lewis has a much improved team this year, a
team that is dominated by freshmen and sophomores... long
term insurance for any football team. Only two men on the
squad, Working and Dyke Norman, the latter being one of
the greatest centers ever to play here, are to be lost through
graduation this year. The remainder of the team consists of
freshmen, sophomores and juniors, with the latter in a
minority.

Quantico 0-W. and L. 13

In the season’s opener against the Quantico Marines, Art
Lewis’ Generals experimented with ground and aerial at-
tacks and sent the Devildogs down to defeat 13-0. The Ma-
rines, led by former Navy great Joe Bartos, brought a heavy
team to Wilson Field with a single wing offense built around
Bartos and a flashy passer named Rudy Flores. Flores’ tosses
and Bartos’ dashes around end and through the middle kept
the servicemen in the game until the Blue attack got under
way. Then Harrington, Bell, and Co., began to move. Passes
by Mike Boyda and Dick Working sent the Big Blue down
the field, and Harrington scored the first touchdown late in
the second quarter on a long run. Ed Tenney added the extra
point from placement, and the Generals led at half-time, 7-0.

Lewis sent in his reserves in liberal quantities in the sec-
ond half as it became apparent that the efforts of Flores and
Bartos would not be sufficient to pull the Marines from be-
hind. In the final quarter Lewis reinserted his starting lineup
into the game, and Harrington again took the ball over the
Quantico goal. The extra point was missed, and the game
ended a few minutes later with the score W. and L. 13,
Quantico 0. Freshmen linemen Tom Ciancutti, John Kay,
and Don Fergusson were standouts throughout the game,
and Mike Boyda’s punting indicated that the big fellow from
Iselin, Pennsylvania, would keep many an opponent’s attack
from locating too close to the Blue goal line this year.

Richmond 3-W. and L. 16

The Richmond game was regarded by many as the first
crucial test of the season for the Generals. The Blue had
shown little real offensive strength against the Marines the
week before, and reports from Richmond were none too en-
couraging. It will be remembered that Richmond spoiled
Homecoming for the Generals last year, and the Spiders
fielded much the same outfit this year as that which did the
damage in 1940.

The game, played at night in Richmond, was ample proof
that the Generals of 1947 are the best to wear the Blue in well
over a decade.

The first quarter evolved itself into a kicking duel with
neither team being able to organize a sustained drive of any
significant length. The second quarter produced the fire-
works. The Spiders got under way midway in the second
quarter and drove all the way to the General 16, being halted
there by tremendous line play on the part of the W. and L,.
freshmen, flanking center Dyke Norman, a truly great per-
former. On fourth down Richmond’s Thompson booted a

field goal from the 16 yard line, and the Spiders took the lead
3-0. They were not to hold this lead for very long. On the
kickoff after Thompson’s field goal, Brian Bell, the Generals’
brilliant halfback from Washington, D.C., grabbed the ball
cn his own five, picked up blockers, cut to the sidelines, broke
into the clear at midfield, and went 95 yards for a touchdown
while spectators roared. Freshman fullback Walt Michaels
kicked the extra point to make the count W. and L. 7, Rich-
mond 3.

Now the Blue began to roll, pushing the Richmond team
back deep into its own territory. Just before the end of the
first half, Jim Lukens, who was up for All State honors this
year, blocked Jack Wilbourne’s punt from the end zone, the
ball rolling out of play behind the end zone for a safety. The
half ended with the Blue ahead 9-3.

The second half was completely dominated by the Blue
as W. and L. sewed up its first Big Six and Southern Con-
terence victory. Bell again scored in the third period on a
short buck through the middle after a sustained drive down
the field. Michaels added the extra point again. Richmond
failed to threaten in the final period, and the final score was
W. and L. 16, Richmond 3.

West Virginia 35-W. and L. 6

Traveling to Charleston, West Virginia, with a record of
two wins against no defeats, the Blue ran into a tricky and
thoroughly rugged Mountaineer team that was “up” for this
one. The “T” formation never could get started against the
Mountaineers as they seemed to score almost at will and
consistently halted Art Lewis’ charges throughout the game.
Dick Working here began to give evidence that he would
shortly rank with the top passers in the nation, as he com-
pleted thirteen passes out of twenty-three attempts. Late in
the fourth quarter, Working’s passes to Lukens, Fahey, and
halfback Charley Harrington brought the ball down to the
West Virginia one yard line. Here the dependable Brian Bell
bucked over for the Generals’ only score of the day. Final
score, West Virginia 35, Washington and Lee 6.

George Washington 6-W. and L. 15

Returning to Wilson Field for the second home contest
of the year, the Blue sloshed through rain and mud to a 15-6
victory, their second in two tries in the Southern Conference.
Rain which began Friday night and continued intermittently
through the game turned Wilson Field into a quagmire, and
effectively halted the passes of Dick Working. Forced to
resort to a ground attack, the Generals made good use of it
against one of the heaviest lines they have faced this year. Mid-

way through the first period, Walt Michaels took the ball on

a handoff from Working and dashed fifteen yards for a
touchdown, faking the G-W safety man into a mud bath on
the three. The extra point was missed. G-W stiffened in the
second quarter, and the half ended with the count Washington
and Lee 6, George Washington 0.

In the third period, with the Blue attack momentarily
stalled on the George Washington twenty-two yard line, Ed
Tenney, place kicking specialist from Atlanta, Georgia, came
in and booted the ball through the up-rights for three more
points.

With less than five minutes to play in the last period and
the rain sufficiently abated for an attempt at aerial work,
Dick Working faded back to midfield and threw a thirty-yard
pass to substitute halfback Gene Bennett who streaked for
the goal and the Generals’ last score.

Then occurred one of the strangest plays ever seen on
Wilson Field. Less than a minute remained in the game when

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Be

Homecoming Freshman Pajama Parade

 

the Blue, this time on their own thirty-four, attempted a line
buck. The ball squirted out of Gene Bennett’s arms and into
the air where it was seized by huge Carl Butkus, 240 pound
George Washington tackle. Butkus lumbered the thirty yards
to the goal without a hand being laid on him by the astonished
Generals. Seconds later the game ended with the score, Wash-
ington and Lee 15, George Washington 6.

Virginia 32-W. and L. 7

This was a game that must be regarded as a heartbreaker
in spite of the seemingly decisive score. No one who saw the
game will ever forget the touchdown that put the Generals
back into the game...the touchdown that didn’t count, and
that broke the heart of a fighting team. The Wahoos were
good that day, but for three quarters they weren’t quite sure
of the fact.

With a beautifully coordinated ground attack that was
invincible in the opening quarter the Wahoos moved to a
touchdown shortly after the opening kickoff, with Billy Pen-
nel dashing twenty-seven yards for a score. Thereupon the
Blue collected itself and stemmed the tide until late in the
second period, when the elusive Pennel again scored, this
time on a jaunt of forty-two yards. The half ended with Vir-
ginia in front, 13-0.

It was the third period that told the story of the game. On
the second play of the period, Dick Working, on first down,
faded to his own thirty and tossed to Nebraskan Charlie Har-
rington who shifted and dodged his way into the clear, and
went over the Virginia goal line untouched. Walt Michaels
kicked the extra point, and the unbelievable seemed about to
happen. The Wahoo lead was shaved to six points. Then came
the heights of elation and the depths of despair... all in one
play. On fourth down, Virginia’s Grimes punted to Har-
rington. The fleet halfback took the ‘ball on his own twenty,
and as thousands watched in unbelieving amazement, headed
for the sidelines, shaking off would-be tacklers all the way,
and then dashed eighty thrilling yards for a touchdown that
apparently tied the score. But even as Scott Stadium went
wild the officials marched the ball back to W. and L. territory
where a fifteen yard penalty for holding was imposed, thus
nullifying Harrington’s touchdown which would have been
his second of the day. From that point on the game was vir-
tually no contest... the Blue’s spirit had been broken. Grimes,
Papit, and Elliot of the Wahoos scored in the third and fourth
quarters, and the game ended with the score at 32-7. Never-
theless, this was a game that will be remembered... had it

not been for a penalty, the Wahoos might conceivably have
lost this one, and they knew it.

Davidson 0-W. and L. 32

The Generals entered this one in a mean frame of mind;
the memory of the previous week was still fresh, and they
meant to win for the Homecoming crowd. For the Davidson
fan the resulting carnage was not pretty. The Wildcats have
a smooth single wing attack; it looked pretty for the first
few minutes of the opening period, but that was all. Late in
the first quarter Brian Bell ran back a Wildcat punt forty-
five yards for a touchdown, and the mayhem was on. The
Wildcats tightened up their defense for the second period,
and then fell apart in the last half. Harrington scampered
forty-one yards for the second touchdown, Gene Bennett,
who is becoming something of a “spot” man, scored twice in
quick succession in the fourth on dashes of five and twelve
,ards respectively, and freshman center Joe McCutcheon, a
brother of the Generals’ big tackle, Andy, intercepted a last
minute pass and ran it twenty-five yards for the final tally.
Walt Michaels kicked two extra points.

A glance at the season record at this juncture showed the
Generals with a record of four wins against two losses, their
best record for that many games in many a year. The Home-
coming victory was the first for a Blue team in over a decade,
and Dick Working had moved up into the ranks of the first
ten passers of the nation in pass completions. Finally, and
most important, Washington and Lee boasted a record of
three victories against no defeats in the Southern Conference
to share first place with Duke.

Army 65-W. and L. 13

The Army game was just one of those unfortunate
“things.” The Blue left for West Point minus two key men...
the first time of the entire season that injuries had plagued
Art Lewis’ ball team. Jim Lukens suffered a separated shoul-
der in the Davidson game, and Tom Ciancutti, one of the
best of the freshman linemen was lost to the team for the
remainder of the season with a broken leg, the result of an
automobile accident. The bubble of Army had been burst the
week before by Columbia, and the Cadets were fighting
mad...a bad omen for any team scheduled to play in Michie
stadium that Saturday.

The story of the game lies in the score. There were just
too many of them, and too many of them were too good. Row-
an, Vinson, Gillette and all the rest behind a magnificent line
stopped every man in Blue... but one. The New York papers
had mentioned Dick Working’s passing arm more than once
during the week before the game, and the carrot-topped Bal-
timorean lived up to expectations. After Army had secured
a 12-0 lead in the first, Working electrified the crowd with a
beautiful pass to Harrington, and Harrington outraced the
Army secondary for a touchdown, the entire play covering
67 yards. Walt Michaels’ dependable toe added the extra
point, and the first quarter ended with Army holding a slim
12-7 lead. The Army machine ran the count to 32-7 at half
time, and Art Lewis yanked the entire first team, choosing
rather to lose decisively than to risk injuries to key men with
two Southern Conference games still to be played. During the
second half Pinkie Gillespie, freshman quarterback, Jerry
Jack, 280 pound freshman guard, Jim Stark, another fresh-
man and a halfback, and many others performed creditably.
Working entered the game in the last quarter and again
proved his worth, this time with a pass to Vic Marler, Eddy-
stone, Pennsylvania, halfback, and Marler darted for the side-
lines and continued on into the end zone for the second W.
and L. score. Working completed 20 out of 35 passes thrown.

[21 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

VPI 27-W. and L. 14

Every team suffers a let down during some part of every
season; this year the let down occurred in the VPI game,
and caused the Generals to drop their first Southern Confer-
ence game. Working’s passes accounted for both scores, as
he completed twelve out of twenty-one thrown to lift him-
self to third place nationally in pass completions. His second
quarter toss to end Jim Fahey tied the score at seven all,
Michaels’ point after touchdown making the seventh point,
and a last period pass to Harrington with Michaels’ aid in
the kicking department gave the Blue its fourteen point total.
The VPI Hokies were pointing for this one, and they made it
good. Their line play was terrific, and their backs are a
group of fast young men. The Generals were simply “off” for
the VPI game...it could happen to anybody.

William and Mary 45-Washington and Lee 6

In the Generals’ final Southern Conference encounter of
the season, a powerful William and Mary team unleashed a
relentless ground attack aided and abetted by a strategically
placed pass offense that ground the Blue into the turf of
Roanoke’s Victory Stadium by a 45-6 score.

The Indians scored almost at will. From the opening gun
the green-uniformed men from Williamsburg were in com-
plete control and surprised everyone witnessing the game,
including themselves, by scoring seven touchdowns with ease.
The hapless Blue’s defense crumpled before the Indians, as
Cloud, a great fullback, scored four times, Ed Magdziak
twice, and end Lou Hoitsma once. The William and Mary line,
led by Knox Ramsey, a second team All-American this year,
performed an astonishing feat by holding the Generals so
effectively on the ground that the net gain for the men in
Blue in the rushing offense column amounted to minus five
yards” Harrington, Bell, and Michaels got nowhere through
the line.

Passes, too, were ineffective. Dick Working’s injured
arm...this a result of the Tech game a week previous...
kept him from seeing too much action, and the red-head com-
pleted only one of four passes. Mike Boyda completed two.

But it was the Generals’ “minute-man” who salvaged the
game from utter ruination. Gene Bennett, who time and again
throughout the season made timely entries into the lineup to
break away for needed scores, came through again. With
seconds remaining in the fourth and final period, and the
Indians once again driving for the W. and L. goal, Bennett
leaped high into the air on his own one yard line to intercept
a Stan Magdziak pass, and shot through an incredulous Wil-
liam and Mary team for ninety-nine yards and the Generals’
only score of the day. Walt Michaels’ try for the point after
touchdown, attempted after the game was officially ended,
was wide.

Washington and Lee 18-Delaware 13

In this, the final game of the year, the Generals went out
to make amends for the debacle of the previous week and to
secure a .500 average for the season, something no Wash-
ington and Lee team had been able to do since 1934, Dela-
ware was known to be no pushover...the Blue Hens still
pointed to the thirty-one game winning streak they had
achieved before this season and were unbeaten since the
third game on their current schedule.

The Generals seemed to upset the dope from the word
“go.” It required but a few running plays in the first period
to send the Blue to the Delaware one yard marker, from
which point Brian Bell bucked over for the first score. Walt
Michaels, who was to have toe trouble all day, missed the
extra point.

The process was repeated in the second stanza. A sus-
tained drive through the middle and around the Blue Hens’
ends, with scarcely a pass thrown, again found the Lex-
ingtonians on the Delaware one yard line. Here Hank Mastri-
ann, fullback from Masillon, Ohio, carried the ball over for
the second touchdown. Michaels again missed the conver-
sion, and the half ended with the score W. and L. 12, Dela-
ware 0).

The Hens came back in the second half with a vengeance
as the Blue suffered an almost fatal relapse. Emulating Wash-
ington and Lee, Delaware drove to the Generals’ one yard
line, and Stalloni went through the middle for the score. The
extra point was missed, but the lead had been shaved to six
points.

With a tie in sight the rejuvenated Hens went all out.
Sparked by Stalloni, they bulled their way down the grid-
iron once more in the face of frantic efforts by the Blue,
stalled momentarily again on the now-fateful one yard line,
and the redoubtable Stalloni repeated his previous perform-
ance with a short buck for the tying score. This time the ex-
tra point was good and Delaware led, 13-12 in the fourth
quarter.

This was enough for Art Lewis’ men. With amazing
ease they now proceeded to run and pass the Blue Hens
dizzy. Taking his cue from Dick Working after attaining
the Delaware four yard line, Brian Bell tossed a four yard
pass to Jim Carpenter in the end zone for the third W. and L.
score. Michaels’ conversion attempt was once more futile, but
the game was sewed up. A few minutes later the 1947 foot-
ball season was history.

= @R. RR Bis

It was not the best of football seasons by any standard...
there was good football, mediocre football, and occasionally,
bad football. There had been moments of elation and others
of deep despair. But the fact remains that the 1947 Generals
compiled the best record for a Washington and Lee football
team in thirteen years, and had scored more points than any
aggregation wearing the Blue in the history of the sport at
W. and L. Significant facts, indeed. Especially significant
when one considers that of the entire squad, only two men
will be absent next year due to graduation. These two, Dick
Working, recently named as first string quarterback on the
Virginia All-State team (he is also ODK), and Dyke Nor-
man, truly an unsung hero and one of the best centers ever
seen in Virginia football, will be sorely missed. However,
next years’ team will be composed of few seniors and a
great majority of sophomores and juniors. Art Lewis has
reason to be pleased. His team faces a tough schedule next
year, but he goes into 1948 with an experienced and spirited
group of football players, all of whom are more than anxious
to better this season’s record. Mike Boyda will be physically
fit for his quarterbacking duties next year, and onlookers will
find that Mike throws « potent pass. Harrington, Bell, and
Michaels will round out the backfield, with Bennett, Penza,
Stark, Mastriann, Holt, Gillespie, and others ready to spell
the regulars when needed. On the line, Lukens, Fahey, Car-
penter, Goldsmith, and Radulovic will be performing at the
ends. Fergusson, Smith, Miller, Andy McCutcheon, Ed Capu-
ano, Jerry Jack, and Buck Conard, will take care of the tackle
duties, Kay, George, Tulloh, Wicknick, Gregory, Brooks,
and Ciancutti will be in at the guard posts, and Joe Mc-
Cuteon, Jack McCausland, and Mark Saurs will hold down
the middle.

The Generals are out to make 1948 a memorable year. It
can be done.

[ 22 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1893

 

Isaac H. Kempner, bank-
er and cotton factor, Gal-
veston, Texas, has many
business and civic connec-

Let us remind you again that the material from which
these notes was compiled consists of letters received by
the class agents during last spring and summer and

and living at 1422 Pearce
Park, Erie, Pennsylvania.

1896
Samuel Davis Stokes, af-

tions. He is chairman of the from questionnaires returned by alumni during that ter leaving college, prac-
board of the United States period. If the notes are not up-to-date, we would ap- sicdit tenet tee: iam
National Bank of Galves- preciate any further information you can let us have. It West Virginia, from 1897 ja
ton. Home address: 1502 is especially important, now that an alumni directory 1096. ded td! ein Vir’
Broadway. is being compiled, for publication during the Bicen- ginia, from 1923 to the pres-

Dr. James B. Bullitt, pro-
fessor in the Medical De-
partment of the University

 

tennial year, that you keep us posted as to changes of
address, occupation, etc.

ent time. He lives on his
farm, Routé No. 2, Roan-
oke, Virginia.

 

 

of North Carolina, Chapel

Hill, North Carolina. Dr. Bullitt, while a student at Wash-
ington and Lee, was what the students of 1947 call a B.M.O.C.
(big man on campus). He was President of the Final Ball;
Business Manager of the Calyx; President of the Athletic
Association; Mathematics Scholarship; Philosophy Scholar-
ship; Mapleson Scholarship: Albert Sydney Boat Crew two
years; Football team four years, captain two years. He was
a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and Phi Beta
Kappa. He received his M.D. degree from the University of
Virginia in 1897.

Benjamin A. Judd, who for many years has practiced law
at 25 Broad Street, New York, New York, has recently retired
from business and is now living at his old home, Van Alstyne,
Texas. Mr. Judd is Class Agent for the class of 1893.

Robert E. Wade was for many years with General Elec-
tric Company in railway transportation engineering at home
and abroad. He is now retired and living at 3850 Lyman Road,
Oakland, California.

1894

Duncan Lawrence Groner, Judge of the United States
Court of Appeals, Washington, D.C., from March 1, 1931,
and Chief Justice since January, 1938. Home address: 2101
Connecticut Avenue, Washington 8, D. C.

Edmund P. Coles, Class Agent for 1894, entered the em-
ploy of General Electric Company immediately after leaving
college and continued with that company un-
til his retirement April 1, 1943. Home address:
117 Queens Road, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Dr. William H. Keister, superintendent
and former supervising principal of the Har-
risonburg, Virginia, public schools for the
past 53 years, retired officially June 30, 1947,
with congratulations and plaudits of his
community for a good job well done ringing
in his ears. He has seen the public schools of
Harrisonburg grow from 200 pupils and 7
teachers and a combination high and graded
school in seven rooms to the present system
of buildings on spacious grounds, and over
1500 pupils and 71 teachers.

1895

Lyne S. Smith, after many years with The
Proctor and Gamble Company, is now retired

(Ye _Z
(i rs

 

 

Carrington Cabell Tut-
wiler, organizer, past-president, Coopers Creek Chemical
Company, and General By-products Company, and in vari-
ous other executive positions with gas and chemical compa-
nies, is now retired and living at his country home, “Brush-
wood,” Lexington, Virginia.

V. E. Funkhouser, president, Funkhouser Equipment
Company, Kansas City, Missouri, spent nine years in the
United States Army—five years of this service in the Orient.
For the past 30 years he has been in the heavy machinery
business. Address: 2425 Jefferson Street, Kansas City, Mis-
souri.

1897

Leroy C. Barret has been Professor of Greek and Latin
at Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut, since 1910. Ad-
dress: 31 Arundel Avenue, West Hartford, Connecticut.

F. Petrie Hamilton, for several years after leaving school,
engaged in municipal and railroad engineering, then some con-
tracting, principally street paving, then in business as sales-
man and executive. Later employed by Federal Government
in various activities until permanent retirement in 1945.
Home: 408 Walnut Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

1898

Borden H. Burr is a member of the law firm of Benners,
Burr, Stokeley & McKamy, Brown-Marx Building, Birming-
ham, Alabama. He is a member of Sigmu Nu,
Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

William Ross McCain, after receiving A.B.
and M.A. from Washington and Lee, took an
LL.B. degree from the University of Arkan-
sas; received the honorary degree of LL.D.

\ from Washington and Lee in June, 1944. He
was admitted to the Arkansas Bar in 1904
but did not practice. Since that time he has

! been engaged in the insurance business and is
| now President of Aetna Insurance Group. Ad-
dress: care of Aetna Insurance Company, 670

Main Street, Hartford, Connecticut.

|

i =a ‘ Alban G. Snyder studied law at West Vir-
il. » ginia University for two years after receiving
Wis his A.B. degree from Washington and Lee,

and was then in government service until his
retirement in 1946.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1899

A. Seddon Jones is Division Sales Manager, Virginia-
Caroline Chemical Corporation and farming at Ellerson,
Virginia.

William E. Davis is a coal mine operator at Tribbey (Perry
County), Kentucky, and President of W. E. Davis Corpora-
tion, owning the Kentucky Hotel of Lexington, Kentucky.
Address: 420 West Sixth Street, Lexington, Kentucky.

Ewing D. Sloan received his A.B. from Washington and
Lee in 1899 and B.S. in civil engineering in 1900. He is now
District Engineer, Bureau of Community Facilities, Federal
Works Administration. Address: Edwards Hotel, Jackson,
Mississippi.

1900

Alfred Grayson Davis is farming and in the timber busi-
ness, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

Dr. S. B. McPheeters received his M.D. from Washington
University, St. Louis, Missouri, after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee. He is now Director of Public Health, Golds-
boro, North Carolina.

1901

Hale M. Houston is President of John Bremond Company,
wholesale grocers, Austin, Texas. Address: Box 1136, Austin,
Texas.

Dr. A. L. Meredith received his M.D. degree from St.
Louis University Medical Department in 1901. He is prac-
ticing medicine in Boonville, Missouri.

1902

Dr. Robert F. Cooper is Vice-President and head of the
Department of Social Science at Bellhaven College, Jackson,
Mississippi.

Dr. Charles H. Young is practicing medicine in Philadel-
phia. Address: 4817 Baltimore Avenue, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.

E. W. G. Boogher, Professor of English at Rider College
from 1933 to 1945, is now Dean of the College. Address:
Rider College, Trenton 9, New Jersey.

1903

R. A. Ruff is a mining engineer and Vice-President of
Northfork Land Company, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

D. R. Phelps is a Doctor of Dental Surgery, 809 Church
Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Samuel McPheeters Glasgow has served as Presbyterian
Minister in Mercedes, Texas, Charleston, West Virginia,
Knoxville, Tennessee, and the First Church, Savannah,
Georgia, from which pastorate he retired in 1945. He is now
living at 829 Ardsley Road, Charlotte, North Carolina.

John F. Wysor has been County Treasurer of Pulaski
County, Virginia, since 1906; is President of the Pulaski
National Bank; President Coleman Furniture Corporation;
President Carrs Fork Corporation, and Director Paul Knit-
ting Mills, Virginia Maid Hosiery Mills and Wallner Hosiery
Mills. He, has been a member of the State Democratic Cen-
tral Committee for 35 years.

1904

W. Owen Wilson entered the insurance business in 1904
and is now President of Davenport Insurance Corporation,
Richmond, Virginia, 1113-15 East Main Street.

Arthur Tabb is Manager of Tabb Transfer Line, Louis-
ville, Kentucky, a business established by his father in 1875.

Dr. Solomon W. Schaefer, after: graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee, attended Johns-Hopkins Medical School from
which he graduated in 1909, and then went to Colorado
Springs, Colorado, as resident physician at the Glockner Sana-
torium and Hospital. In 1914 he opened his own office, doing
research work in tuberculosis in addition to practicing medi-
cine. In 1939 he removed to New York City, where he is now
doing internal medicine, with special emphasis on diseases
of the chest. Address: 178 East 70th Street, New York 21,
New York.

Lyle M. Moffett, upon graduation from Union Theologi-
cal Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, went to China as a Pres-
byterian Missionary in 1910 where he stayed until 1915. On
his return to this country he went to the Presbyterian Church
in McDowell, Virginia, where he is still serving as Minister.

1905

S. Blount Mason, immediately on leaving school, went with
the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, and is
now Vice-President of the company. His home is at 4306
Rugby Road, Baltimore 10, Maryland.

Adelbert Steele Hays is an attorney-at-law, 103 Main
Street, Hays Building, Russellville, Arkansas. He was a mem-
ber of the Arkansas Constitutional Convention, 1918-19.

John L. Daniel has been teaching and doing administra-
tive work in the Department of Chemistry in Georgia School
of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, since 1912.

1906

Dr. F. R. Crawford was a medical missionary in China,
under the Presbyterian Board of Missions from 1914 to 1932.
Since that time he has been in private practice in Farmville,
Virginia.

John Pilkington is in the insurance business, with offices
in the Barnett National Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

Claude Light is an attorney-at-law and Commissioner in
Chancery, Wood County Circuit Court, Parkersburg, West
Virginia.

Bernard J. Mayer is a member of the firm of Lovejoy and
Mayer, attorneys-at-law, Citizens and Southern Bank Build-
ing, LaGrange, Georgia.

Kelley W. Trimble was a Topographic Engineer with the
Topographic branch of U. S. Geological Survey from 1906 to
1945, when he retired from service. He lives at Route 1,
Staunton, Virginia.

George W. P. Whip is practicing law at 823 Munsey
Building, Baltimore 2, Maryland.

John E. Scott was a Civil Engineer with the L. & N. R.R.
Company for 30 years, and is now retired and living at Route
1, Box 30-A, Prattville, Alabama.

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1907

Dr. Frank McCutcheon is an eye, ear, nose and throat
physician in Salisbury, North Carolina. Address: 100 West
Innes Street, Salisbury, North Carolina.

Joshua M. Sapp entered Washington and Lee late in 1904,
missing the first session's work which he made up in sum-
mer school, receiving his LL.B. in 1907. He is practicing law
at 20 East 4th Street, Panama City, Florida. He is married
and has two sons, Herbert Patton and William Howard.

George W. Keller is a druggist in Huntington, West Vir-
ginia. Address: 1221 Kanawha Terrace, Huntington, West
Virginia.

The Reverend Thomas Fletcher Opie, D.D., is a retired

minister of the Episcopal Church. Address: Box 188, Great
Barrington, Massachusetts.

William Leland Lord has been teaching in Woodbury
Forest School, Woodbury Forest, Virginia, since 1916.

Dr. Waldo B. Newell is a physician and surgeon practic-
ing in Enid, Oklahoma, with offices at 501 Broadway Tower.

1908

Earl K. Paxton, professor of mathematics at Washington
and Lee from 1920 to 1946, is now professor of mathematics
at Virginia Military Institute. Address: Box 754, Lexington,
Virginia.

Donald P. Boyer is teaching drafting in the Virginia
Mechanics Institute, Richmond, Virginia, and Sales Engineer
for Spencer Turbine Company, Hartford, Connecticut. He re-
ceived an M.A. degree from the University of Virginia in 1946.

J. P. Carpenter is president of the First National Bank of
Clifton Forge, Virginia, director of Virginia Electric and
Power Company, Clifton Forge Wholesale Grocery Com-
pany, and member of the Virginia State Senate.

Philip P. Page is Vice-President and General Manager of
Chicago Journal of Commerce. He was initiated into honor-
ary membership in Omicron Delta Kappa here on November
12, 1947.

John M. Bierer, after graduation at Washington and Lee,
received the degree of B.S. in Chemical Engineering from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is Director, Vice-
President and Factory Manager of Boston Woven Hose and
Rubber Company, Boston, Massachusetts. Home address:
98 Collins Road, Waban 68, Massachusetts.

James M. O’Brien is practicing law at 159 South Beverly
Drive, Beverly Hills, California. He is President of the Bev-
erly Hills Bar Association.

1909

Herman William Ordeman is a Consulting Engineer, 104
Clarke Place, Frederick, Maryland.

Levi T. Wilson is senior professor, Department of Mathe-
matics, U.S. Naval Academy. After receiving his B.A. de-
gree in 1909, and M.A. in 1910 from Washington and Lee, he
received the A.M. degree from Columbia in 1913 and Ph.D.
from Harvard in 1915.

Elliott Vawter is Vice-President of Coal Sales Company,
First National Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Joseph T. Lykes, President Lykes Brothers Steamship
Company, has been connected with the various branches of
Lykes Brothers interests since January 1, 1910. He is a mem-
ber of the University Board of Trustees. Address: 17 Battery
Place, New York, New York.

Oscar Randolph Price, retired Engineer, is living at 297
Newman Avenue, in his home town of Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Dr. A. A. Houser, after 30 years in the medical profession,
has now retired and is living at 3405 Hawthorne Avenue,
Richmond, Virginia.

A. H. Chandler has been with Consolidated Gas, Electric
Light and Power Company of Baltimore, Maryland, for the
past 29 years in the Industrial Power Department.

1910

G. W. Gwathmey, Jr., was Engineer of Construction in the
building of the Point Pleasant Bridge dedicated on May 10,
1947, by officials of the Baltimore and Ohio Railway Com-
pany. This bridge, costing $2,000,000, spans the Great Kana-
wha River at its junction with the Ohio, and is of tremendous
civic, industrial and social importance to the entire mid-Ohio
Valley region.

C. W. Streit is Vice-President and General Sales Man-
ager, Southern Cement Company, Birmingham, Alabama. He
has been with this company ever since leaving Washington
and Lee.

Hamilton A. Derr is still carrying on as President of Van-
guard Paints and Finishes, Inc., now in its ninth year. Ad-
dress: care of the above company, Marietta, Ohio.

Joseph R. Blackburn is with the State Department of
Mines of West Virginia, Charleston, West Virginia.

1911

Dr. Robert D. Glasser received the M.D. degree from the
Medical College of Virginia after leaving Washington and
Lee and is now practicing his profession with offices in the
Medical Arts Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Ulen G. Medford is active partner and general manager
of Henderson-Medford Motor Company (Ford Dealers),
Lufkin, Texas.

Edward E. Brown entered the life insurance business up-
on graduation and is now General Agent, Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company, 805 Chattanooga Bank Building, Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee. He has been active in civic affairs in
Chattanooga, being past president of the Chattanooga Cham-
ber of Commerce, past president Chattanooga Kiwanis Club,
past Lt. Governor, Kiwanis Club, trustee McCallie prepara-
tory school, and also active in the work of the First Baptist
church.

Everett B. Lemon is in the Real Estate brokerage busi-
ness at 26 Kirk Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

William A. Reid is Cashier of The First National Bank
of Troutville, Virginia, and a farmer and orchardist, owning
and directing two farms. He is now President of The Vir-
ginia Pure Bred Live Stock Sales, Inc.

1912

Charles Lee Ordeman is Vice-President of Mead Sales
Company (pulp and paper), 230 Park Avenue, New York,

[25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

New York. He is President Mead Paper Products, Vice-
President Wheelwright Papers, Inc., and Vice-President
Dill and Collins, Inc. His home is at Old Hill Farms Road,
Westport, Connecticut.

James B. Whitfield is farming near Demopolis, Alabama.

Charlie Calvin Henshaw has been in the farming and stock
raising business since leaving Washington and Lee with the
A.B. degree. His home is in Charles Town, West Virginia.

Dr. Freeman H. Hart is now teaching in the Department
of Humanities, in the University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida. He has written many historical articles and is the
author of “The Valley of Virginia in the American Revolu-
tion.” Before going to the University of Florida he was Execu-
tive Secretary of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, from 1940
to 1946.

John David Ankrom is in the contracting business (streets,
sewers, water lines), at 1040 Quincy Street, Parkersburg,
West Virginia.

R. Wayne Ely has been practicing law in St Louis, Mis-
souri, since 1920. His offices are on the 10th Floor, Commerce
Building, 418 Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

Francis J. Heazel has been practicing law in Asheville,
North Carolina, since 1922; Special Counsel of the Metropoli-
tan. Insurance Company in New York since 1934. Address:
214 Jackson Building, Asheville, North Carolina.

1913

Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug has been in the practice of
Pediatrics from 1921 to date. Business address: 111 Broad-
way, Daytona Beach, Florida.

Walter Lowrie Tucker is farming at Sandidges, Virginia.

Adrian Williamson has been strenuously engaged in coun-
try law practice since leaving school, with the exception of
World War I and World War II. He is a Director in Union
Bank and Trust Company, Monticello, Arkansas.

Henry E. Peeples is Secretary and Treasurer McLain &
Peeples, Inc., Insurance and Real Estate, 138 Sycamore
Street, Decatur, Georgia. He was in Lexington for Home-
coming.

Thomas F. Walker has been practicing law at Wytheville,
Virginia, since 1922.

Harry A. Moran is President of Leccony Smokeless Fuel
Company, Beckley, West Virginia. He was a visitor to the
campus for Homecoming.

Samuel W. Maytubby, Jr., has practiced law in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, but is now retired. Residence address: 1712
N. W. 38th Street.

Henry B. Goodloe received his B.S. in Electrical Engineer-
ing at V.P.I1., before coming to the law school at Washing-
ton and Lee, where he received the LL.B. degree. He is prac-
ticing law in Crozet, Virginia.

1914

Lee R. Grabill, Jr., is Assistant Manager, Patent Divison,
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., and Assistant Secretary of
Patent Board of the same company. Business address: 1702
duPont Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.

Roger J. Bear is Director of Industrial Relations, The
Kroger Company, 35 East 7th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio. His
son, Roger J., Jr.. (Cub), is now a student at Washington
and Lee. Roger, Sr., was a visitor to the campus at Home-
coming.

Dr. Vann M. Matthews is practicing medicine in Charlotte,
North Carolina. Address: 824 East Trade Street.

Thomas F. Ogilvie is editor and publisher of the Green
Guide, an Atlantic City, New Jersey, directory, 1200 Atlantic
Avenue, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Merriman §S. Smith is in the general insurance business in
Bluefield, West Virginia. He was appointed Judge of the
West Virginia Court of Claims, July 1, 1945.

Morey N. Dunn is practicing law in West Palm Beach,
Florida, with offices at 401 Harvey Building.

Junius L. Powell is a member of the firm of Chubb & Son,
insurance underwriters; Vice-President and Director of
United States Guarantee Company, and director of Vigiland
Insurance Company, Compania de Seguros Federal de Cuba
and Premium Credit Corporation. Address: 90 John Street,
New York 7, New York.

1915

Samuel G. Keller has been in the oil business since leav-
ing college. He is now Manager Socony Vacuum Oil Co.,
Trenton, Michigan.

Woodson P. Houghton, following service in World War
I, has been practicing law in Washington with the firm of
Ellis, Houghton, & Ellis and its predecessors. Address: 504
Southern Building, Washington 5, D. C.

Charles M. Switzer is Assistant Manager, Nylon Division,
E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company. Address: 4510
Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.

Jerry Allen Burke, Jr., is an engineer for a fire insurance
company, 805 Insurance Building, Richmond, Virginia

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes received his M.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia Medical Department in 1920 and has prac-
ticed his profession in Richmond, Virginia, since 1924. He is
Associate Professor of Dermitology at the Medical College
of Virginia. Address: 701 Professional Building, Richmond,
Virginia. ,

Richard B. Loughran is President of the Beaumont Furni-
ture Company, 27 Biltmore Avenue, Asheville, North Carolina.

K. L. Shirk is a lawyer and Commissioner of Public Safe-
ty, 33 North Duke Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

1916

Dr. H. M. Rowan, after graduation from Washington and
Lee, received his M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania
Medical School and did post-graduate work in universities of
Vienna, Edinburgh and Budapest. He is Chief Obstetrician
of Mercer Hospital, Trenton, New Jersey. Address: 224 West
State Street, Trenton, New Jersey.

Dr. Robert G. Nelson has recently been elected a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of the McCallie School in Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee, and is a member of and Vice-President
of the Board of Medical Examiners for the State of Florida.
Address: 712 Citizens Building, Tampa, Florida.

[ 26 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John G. C. Myers is President of Central Supply and
Equipment Company, Danville, Kentucky. Address: 908
Perryville Street, Danville, Kentucky.

Dr. Robert P. Hawkins, Jr., after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee, received his M.D. degree from the Medical
College of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia. He is now surgeon
in the Chesapeake and Ohio Hospital, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., Publishers of “Finance,” Chicago
trade journal, was a recent visitor to the campus. His sons,
Mitchell and Reuben A., III, are now students at Washington
and Lee.

Earl B. Rose is practicing law and director of the Peoples
xchange Bank, Beattyville, Kentucky. Home address: 537
North Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky.

John Rives Manning is in the general insurance business
and President of National Loan and Insurance Company,
Inc., 12 West Second Street, Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.

F. Stanley Porter is practicing law in Washington, D. C.,
with offices in the Willard Building.

1917

William Olin Burtner has been an attorney in the De-
partment of Justice since June, 1923. His home is at 2406
North Upton Street, Washington, D. C.

W. Calvin Wells, III, has been with the same law firm,
Wells, Wells, Newman & Thomas, since his admission to
the bar in 1921. He received his LL.B. degree from the Har-
vard Law School after graduation from Washington and
Lee. Address: 900 Lemar Life Building, Jackson, Mississippi.

Dr. William H. Brandon received his M.D. degree from
Northwestern University Medical School in 1923, after gradu-
ation from Washington and Lee. He has been on the Surgi-
cal Staff, Clarksdale Hospital since 1933 and is owner and
director of the Brandon Clinic, Clarksdale. Address: P. O. Box
688, Clarksdale, Mississippi.

James H. Forbes is President, James H. Forbes Tea and
Coffee Company, St. Louis, Missouri. Home address: 7019
Washington Boulevard, University City 5, Missouri.

Charles G. Peters, Mohler, Peters & Snyder, Attorneys at
Law, Security Building, Charleston, West Virginia, has oc-
cupied the same office with the same firm since returning
from World War I. His son, recently returned from over-
seas, is now in school at Columbia University.

Claude R. Hill, banker, lumberman, real estate and farmer,
is president Merchants and Miners National Bank, president
Hill Realty Company, president Mankin Lumber Company,
and president of the Hill Company. Address: 205 Highland
Avenue, Oak Hill, West Virginia.

John’ R. Brand is an attorney-at-law in Hobbs, New
Mexico.

1918

Fulton W. Hoge received the LL.B. degree from Harvard
Law School after graduation at Washington and Lee and is
now practicing law, Suite 675, 417 South Hill Street, Los
Angeles 13, California.

George M. Hearne, Jr., is Vice-President The Hearne Dry
Goods Company, Ltd., Shreveport, Louisiana.

A. B. Bowman is in the general practice of law at John-
son City, Tennessee, being a member of the firm of Simmonds
and Bowman, P. O. Box 507.

Virgil J. Trotter, Jr., is a member of the firm of V. J. Trot-
ter & Sons, and director Commercial Loan and Trust Com-
pany, Monticello, Arkansas.

John Morton Eggleston has been in the fertilizer business
ever since graduation here and is now Sales Manager of
Robertson Chemical Corporation, Norfolk, Virginia.

James J. Izard is in the general insurance business, partner
in Charles J. Lunsford Sons, Roanoke, Virginia, and a direc-
tor Stone Printing and Manufacturing Company, Roanoke
Gas Company, and Peoples Perpetual Building and Loan As-
sociation.

1919

Dr. Harry E. Handley received his M.D. degree from
Johns-Hopkins University in 1923. He has been Assistant Di-
rector, Division of Public Health, The Commonwealth Fund
of New York since October 1, 1932.

James R. Fain is President City National Bank, Winston-
Salem, North Carolina. He served as Mayor of Winston-
Salem from 1939 to 1941.

W. F. Barron is Treasurer and General Manager of Rome
Coca-Cola Bottling Company and has various other business
connections in Rome, Georgia.

Geerge T. Madison received the LL.B. degree from Tu-
lane University after graduation here and started the practice
of law in Bastrop, Louisiana, in 1921. He is now senior mem-
ber of the firm of Madison, Madison, Files and Shell. Ad-
dress: P.O. Box 510, Bastrop, Louisiana.

Ralph E. Moore recently resigned as superintendent of the
Presbyterian Orphan’s Home in Lynchburg, Virginia, and
has assumed his duties as superintendent of the Buchanan
Memorial School and Home at Sweetwater, Tennessee.

1920

Thomas McA. Stubbs, after graduation from Washington
and Lee, received the LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School
in 1923. He is practicing law in Sumter, South Carolina.

J. Waller Callison is in the insurance and real estate busi-
ness in Staunton, Virginia. He is a director in Augusta Na-
tional Bank of Staunton and Augusta County Chamber of
Commerce.

Henry Ford Trotter is Ford car and tractor dealer, Monti-
cello, Arkansas.

William F. Parker has been in the continuous practice of
law at Miami, Florida, since graduation from law school. He
is Secretary and Counsel for Hammond Milling Company.
Address: 1024 duPont Building, Miami, Florida.

James P. Hill, after graduation here, received the LL.B.
degree from the University of Georgia and LL.M. from
George Washington University in 1924, and has been practic-
ing law in Florida since 1925. His offices are in the Atlantic
National Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

Hon. William Fadjo Cravens has been Representative in
Congress, 4th Arkansas District in 76th, 77th, 78th, 79th, and
80th Congresses. Address: 1405 House Office Building, Wash-
ington, D.C.

[ 27 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University |

 

Pinkney Grissom is a member of the firm of Thompson,
Knight, Harris, Wright and Weisberg, Attorneys-at-Law,
1801 Republic Bank Building, Dallas 1, Texas.

Harold G. Robertson is President Colonial-American Na-
tional Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. Address: 49 Hawthorn Road,
Salem, Virginia.

1921

Robert G. Kelly is a member of the law firm of Jackson,
Kelly, Morrison & Moxley, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Dr. Ramon D. Garcin and Mrs. Garcin were visitors to
the campus in September. Dr. Garcin is practicing medicine
at 3216 East Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia.

A. Milling Bernstein is practicing law in Monroe, Louisi-
ana, with offices in the Ouichita National Bank Building.

Albert D. Burk is Superintendent of American Lumber
and Treating Company, a wood preserving plant, Shreveport,
Louisiana.

John L. Patterson, Class Agent for 1921, is in the insur-
ance business, with offices in the Pierce Building, St. Louis,
Missouri. He was a visitor to the campus at Homecoming.

Wathen Knebelkamp is Regional Manager, Western Ken-
tucky plants, Schenley Distillers, Incorporated, 1701 West
Breckenridge, Louisville, Kentucky.

J. Edward Moyler has been continuously engaged in the
practice of law since graduation here. Address: 201-207 Farm-
ers Bank Building, Franklin, Virginia.

R. C. Wood has been practicing law in Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, since 1922, with offices in the First National Bank
Building.

1922

Garland Gray is in the lumber manufacturing and banking
business in Waverly, Virginia. He is President of Gray-Hig-
gins Lumber Company and President of the Bank of Waver-
ly. He served in the State Senate of Virginia from 1941 to
1945.

James A. Cranford is Vice-President and Director in the
Atlantic National Bank, Jacksonville, Florida, and Director
in Commodores Point Terminal.

Charles H. Miller was with Alabama Power Company
until February 15, 1940, when he purchased the Talladega
Ice and Storage Co., which also owns and operates the Talla-
dega Creamery. Address: P.O. Box 3, Talladega, Alabama.

George T. (Doc) Holbrook is Assistant Secretary of the
Standard Surety and Casualty Company, living at 36 Coleman
Road, Wethersfield, Connecticut. His son is headed for
Washington and Lee in the fall of 1949.

Joe L. Silverstein has been actively engaged in the prac-
tice of law in Charleston, West Virginia, since 1922. He is
also President of the Smoky Mountain Railroad, Knoxville,
Tennessee, and President of Midwest Steel Corporation
Charleston, West Virginia. His offices are in the Charleston
National Bank Building.

1923

Vaughn Penn is Vice-President in charge of the New
York office of the Gem-Dandy Corporation, Madison, North

Carolina. He is in business with George Mason, ’28, president
of the company. He lives at 13 Rochelle Road, Larchmont,
New York, with his wife and two daughters who are 15 and 13
years old. Has been living in New York for 18% years.

Cy Hall, Judge of the Intermediate Court of Kanawha
County, Charleston, West Virginia.

Lee Moncrief Harrison is Assistant Professor of Second-
dary Education (science), Louisiana State University, Pea-
body Hall 120, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

G. E. Berson, Jr., is connected with the Berry Dry Goods
Company, Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Ed Bozeman is a member of the firm of Woodson and
Bozeman, Inc., wholesale distributors, 482 Union Avenue,
P. O. Box 1701, Memphis, Tennessee.

1924

Ogden Shropshire is the owner of Shropshire & Company,
securities dealer, 207 First National Bank Annex, . Mobile,
Alabama.

Charles H. Phillips is senior partner in Charles H. Phil-
lips Company, real estate developing. He is a member of the
Virginia House of Delegates. Address: Mutual Building,
Richmond, Virginia.

Edward D. Gibson has been connected with the automo-
bile business in various capacities since leaving Washington
and Lee. He now runs Gibson Motors, 217 Park Avenue,
Mansfield, Ohio.

W. C. (Bill) McKnight is Chemist and Technical Sales
Manager with Georgia Kogan y Cia. Ltd., Casilla 594 Val-
paraiso, Chile, S$. A.

E. Almer Ames has been Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Accomac County, Virginia, since March, 1943. Address: Ac-
comac, Virginia.

Dr. John T. Collins practiced optometry in Charleston,
West Virginia, for fifteen years and in Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia, for the past two years. Address: Box 831, Lewisburg,
West Virginia.

H. L. Shuey is President of the Morganton Furniture
Company, Morganton, North Carolina, Vice-President of
Huffman Full Fashioned Mills and an officer or director in
“the usual related businesses and civic organizations.”

W. Clyde Dennis is an attorney-at-law and Trial Judge,
Buchanan County, Virginia, and Secretary-Treasurer Bucova
Insurance Agency, Inc., Grundy, Virginia.

Thomas P. Duncan is engaged in general business invest-
ments at 1145 First Street, N. St. Petersburg, Florida.

Charles A. Cohen, after serving as Assistant Corporation
Counsel, City of New York and Special Counsel to the Board
of Water Supply, City of New York, until 1935, has been in
private practice at 475 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, N.Y.

1925

Gibson B. Witherspoon’s writing in the field of air law has
gained him wide recognition. He is the author of an article ap-
pearing in the American Bar Association Journal of Septem-
ber, 1947, entitled “What Care Is Required of a Carrier by
Air?” Mr. Witherspoon became particularly interested in this

[ 28 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

subject through his work as one of the representatives in the
National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State
Laws. He is in general practice in Meridian, Mississippi; a
member of the American Bar Association, the Mississippi
State Bar Association, and of the National Commission on
Uniform State Laws. He is an A.B. of the class of 1925 and
an LL.B. of 1927.

Robert F. Goodrich has been connected with Franklin
Limestone Company, Inc., since 1928. Address: 612 10th
Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee.

Edwin W. (Eb) Brown is with the United States Treas-
ury Department, Post Office Building, Indiana, Pennsylvania.

Wilson M. Roach is in accident, health and life insurance
business at 1106 Earle Building, Washington 4, D.C. His
home is at 112 Hilltop Road, Silver Spring, Maryland.

Harold D. St. John is president of H. W. St. John & Com-
pany, export and import shipping agents, 18 Pearl Street,
New York 4, New York.

William A. Robertson is President of Hampton Roads
Paper Co., Inc.; Vice-President, Cordova Realty Corpora-
tion; Treasurer Norfolk Savings and Loan Corporation; and
Director Norfolk Retail Merchants Association. Address: care
of Hampton Roads Paper Company, Inc.

W. J. (Ach) Driver is in general farming (“Seminole
Farm”) together with handling business and _ residential
property in Ocala, Arkansas. He is also member of the Board
of Directors and Vice-President, Producers Cooperative, Inc.,
and member of the Board of Directors, Mississippi Valley
Canning Company.

John S. Strahorn, Jr., is Professor of Law at the Univer-
sity of Maryland Law School, where he has been for the past
17 years, varied by summer teaching at George Washington
University Law School and the University of Wisconsin Law
School. Home address: 3936 Cloverhill Road, Baltimore 18,
Maryland.

Murrel D. (Lefty) Klein has been in the insurance busi-
ness for 22 years. His firm is Klein and Appel, Starks Build-
ing, Louisville, Kentucky. He has two daughters, one 14 and
the other 10 years of age.

Edgar T. McHenry has been out of the Army less than a
year and is getting started as a country storekeeper in Ger-
mantown, Tennessee.

1926

Richard W. Livingston is Treasurer of E. C. Livingston,
Inc., New Oxford, Pennsylvania, and Director of the First
National Bank, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. He has been con-
nected with E. C. Livingston, Inc., shoe manufacturers since
leaving school.

J. R. Thames is in the yellow pine lumber business, un-
der the firm name of J. R. Thames & Company, Birmingham,
Alabama.

George Lee Hill is Manager, Administrative Department
Lockheed Aircraft Service, Inc., P.O. Box 300, Sayville,
Long Island, New York.

William R. Marchman, after ten years with National City
Bank of New York in Manchuria and China, and eight years
with R. L. Marchman & Co., Inc., Fort Valley, Georgia, has
been farming since January 1, 1946, in Georgia and North

Carolina. He still has business connections in Shanghai,
China. Address: 525 North Avenue, Fort Valley, Georgia.

Edward Felsenthal is Assistant General Agent, New Eng-
land Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1618 Sterick Build-
ing, Memphis, Tennessee.

1927

Brigadier General John S. Letcher has retired after more
than 20 years service in the Marine Corps and he and his
family will make their home in Lexington. General Letcher
has received the Navy Cross, the Silver Star in the Battle of
Guam, and the Legion of Merit in the Battle of Iwo Jima,
all awarded in combat.

Joe W. Pitts is President and General Manager of Brown-
Roberts Hardware and Supply Company, Ltd., wholesale
hardware, plumbing, mill and electrical supplies, in Alexan-
dria, Louisiana. He has had the same business connections
since graduation in 1927. Address: P.O. Drawer 391, Alex-
andria, Louisiana.

Dr. Pendleton Tompkins, after private practice in Phila-
delphia from 1936 to 1946, is now an obstetrician and gyne-
cologist in San Francisco, California, and member of the
attending staff of the University of California. Address: 715
Crescent Avenue, San Mateo, California.

George D. Varney, L.L.B., ’27, State Senate President, of
Kittery, Maine, has announced his candidacy for the Republi-
can nomination for Governor of Maine in the June primary
election next year.

Zeb H. Herndon is practicing law in Charleston, West
Virginia. He is a member of the firm of Strother, Herndon &
Berry, 811 United Carbon Building, Charleston, W. Va.

George Maynard is practicing law with his brothers, Wil-
liam H. (Billy) and Fletcher in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He
has three children—George, age 16, who will enter Wash-
ington and Lee in 1949, Elsie, age 13, and Lucie Lee, age 6.

Marion L. Bergman is a partner in Monroe Realty Com-
pany, Monroeville, Alabama, where they are having an oil
boom.

John Strickler has practiced law in Roanoke, Virginia,
since graduation. He now has a son at Washington and Lee
and is a frequent visitor to the campus.

G. Carlton Walters is still State Referee, Workmen's
Compensation, State Building, New York, New York. He
also finds time for private practice and to serve as Counsel
to the Sanitary District and the Board of Education. He has
five children, including twins.

1928

Willett Clark Magruder, Jr., has been a chemist with
Carter Carburetor Corporation since 1933. Address: 2840
North Spring Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

Frontis W. Sherrill is President of Sherill Oil Company
and director Sherrill Terminal Company and Citizens-Peoples
National Bank, Pensacola, Florida.

Dr. John M. Spence has been out of the Army for a year
and a half after serving 3% years in the Medical Corps. He
is now in private practice at 2903 North Charles Street, Bal-
timore, Maryland. He has a son, John, III, now fifteen and a
daughter one and a half.

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. W. Alderson, in addition to raising 2000 bales of cotton
and 15,000 bushels of peaches a year, is president of a mer-
cantile corporation doing a large business in Forrest City,
Arkansas.

Paul E. Daugherty is an attorney and independent oil op-
erator, with offices in the Esperson Building, Houston, Texas.

Irving W. Cubine graduated from Roanoke College before
receiving his LL.B. from Washington and Lee. He is now in
the general practice of law, with offices in the Burch Build-
ing, Martinsville, Virginia.

G. Waldo Dunnington is now associate professor of Ger-
man at Northwestern State College, Natichitoches, Louisiana.

Norman R. Crozier, Class Agent for ’28-Law, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Bowyer, Gray, Thomas, Crozier and
Jaffe, Southwestern Life Building, Dallas, Texas.

1929

Julian G. Berry has been busy with his general insurance
business since returning from the Army. Address: 533 Jef-
ferson, Tupelo, Mississippi.

Louis A. Haskell is now Rector of St. John’s Church,
Florence, South Carolina.

J. M. Shackelford is with the Analysis Department, Johns
Manville, New York.

Hugh D. Ebert, after working for 12 years with the Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Company, is now Assistant Manager of
J. W. Wood Wholesale Grocery Company, Lynchburg. Va.

Earnest E. Sanders, after leaving school here, took his
LL.B. from Texas University, and shortly thereafter be-
came associated with, and later a partner of, James & Connor,
attorneys, and in 1942 formed a partnership with Simon, Wynn,
Sanders and Jones, 1608 Fort Worth National Bank Build-
ing, Fort Worth, Texas. They engage in the general civil
practice of law, doing corporate work, representing insurance
companies, engaging in oil practice and in general practice.

Walter H. Cox has been with the S. D. Warren Company,
paper manufacturers, since 1930. He married Katherine Da-
vis in 1936 and they have three sons, Jonathan Davis, Stephen
Leigh and Philip Hedrick. Address: Old Connecticut Path,
Wayland, Massachusetts.

John Bell Towill is engaged in the general practice of civil
law with the law firm of Hull, Willingham, Towill & Nor-
man, Southern Finance Building, Augusta, Georgia. During
World War II he served on active duty with the United
States Naval Reserve for four years, separated with the rank
of Lieutenant Commander.

1930

J. A. Painter has taught Bookkeeping at Lock Haven,
Pennsylvania, Senior High School for the past twelve years
and is now head of the department, and has been faculty
manager of all sports for eleven years. He married Miss Vir-
ginia Thomas of Lexington and they spend their vacations
here, hence he is a frequent visitor to the campus. Address:
700 Bellefonte Avenue, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania.

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton, after graduation here, received
his M.D. degree from Washington University Medical School.
He is now in private practice in St. Louis, and consultant in
Allergy to Barnes Hospital, and instructor in medicine Wash-

ington University Medical School. Address: Beaumont Medi-
cal Building, 3750 Washington Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri.

Frank O. Evans has practiced law in Milledgeville,
Georgia, since 1933. He is owner of Western Auto Associa-
tion Store and Modern Home Supply Co., of Milledgeville.

Robert W. Moseley is teaching Sociology and Economics
at Arkansas State Teachers College at Conway, Arkansas.

Dr. John P. Lynch is specializing in internal medicine and
Director of St. Luke’s Hospital and Virginia Hospital service,
1000 West Grace Street, Richmond, Virginia.

James N. Hess is office manager, Carbide and Carbon
Chemical Corporation, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 1/7,
New York.

A. A. Harman is a watch importer—Harman Watch Com-
pany, 22 West 48th Street, New York.

Ben L. Rawlins is General Attorney for the Carnegie-
Illinois Steel Company. He tentatively promises to make a
trip to Lexington sometime in the not too distant future.
Address: 434 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Frank L. Shipman is a member of the firm of Shipman &
Shipman, attorneys-at-law, 14 South Plum Street, Cornwall
Building, Troy, Ohio; Secretary-Treasurer and Director
Miami Specialties Company; General Counsel, First Troy
National Bank and Trust Company; Hobart Brothers Com-
pany; Troy Sunshade Company and Hartzell Industries, Inc.

1931

Stuart Sanders is Secretary Sanders Brothers Co.,. Vice-
President and Secretary Ideal Land Corporation and Presi-
dent Roanoke Paint and Glass Company. Home address: 5305
Toddsbury Road, Richmond, Virginia.

John G. Faulkner, Jr., is a private Investigator with of-
fices at 926 Kentucky Home Life Building. He is studying
law at the Jefferson School of Law in Louisville.

John Kell Martin, Jr., has been in the life insurance busi-
ness since leaving school. He is now Assistant Manager, New
York Life Insurance Co., 1001 Grant Building, Atlanta, Ga.

Jack Campbell Lovelace is President, Lovelace Motor Sup-
ply and Director and Vice-President of Lovelace Realty, Inc.,
Bozeman, Montana.

George Junkin is a statistician with the United States De-
partment of Agriculture. Home address: 5638-19th Street,
North, Arlington, Virginia.

Walter E. Hoffman, after graduation here, received the
B.S. degree in economics from the Wharton School of Finance
and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania. He is practicing
law, with offices in the National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia.

Horace Gooch is President of Worcester Moulded Plas-
tics Company, 14 Hygeia Street, Worcester, Massachusetts.
This is now the largest plant for this work in the East.

1932

Captain Herbert G. Dollahite has been serving as Mana-
ger of the Eighth Army Special Services, Atami Rest Hotel
in the resort town of Atami on the Japanese “Riviera,” sixty
miles south of Yokohama, since June, 1946. This beautiful

| 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

hotel, complete with a golf course, tennis courts, riding sta-
bles and hot mineral baths, is for the use of enlisted men on
leave. Forwarding address: Amory, Mississippi.

John J. Broderick has accepted an appointment as profes-
sor of law at the University of Notre Dame Law School,
South Bend, Indiana.

Martin P. Burks was appointed assistant general solicitor
of the Norfolk and Western Railway, effective November 1,
1947. Associated with the local attorneys for the Norfolk
and Western in Roanoke for the past five years, he is now a
non-resident lecturer in the Washington and Lee Law School.

John W. Ball, B.A. °32, LL.B. ’35, has recently become a
member of the firm of Stockton, Ulmer & Murchison, At-
torneys-at-Law, Barnett National Bank Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida, Herman Ulmer is also a Washington and Lee
alumnus, LL.B. 715.

M. William Adelson, after graduation here, attended the
University of Alabama, and received the LL.B. degree from
Duke University in 1935. He is practicing law at 1816 O’Sul-
livan Building, Baltimore 2, Maryland.

George A. Speer has been in the general practice of Law
at Sanford, Florida, since March, 1933; County Procecuting
Attorney of Seminole County since January, 1941. Address:
P.O. Box 1364, Sanford, Florida.

Lyman C. Harrell, Jr., is engaged in the general practice
of law in Emporia, Virginia; Commonwealth’s Attorney,
Greenville County, Virginia; Attorney for the town of Em-
poria; General Counsel and Director of Citizens National
Bank of Emporia and Director of Emporia Federal Savings
and Loan Association.

Robert W. Reinhold is Assistant Director of Civilian Per-
sonnel and Management Engineering with the Bureau of
Yards and Docks, Navy Department, Washington 25, D.C.

1933

Charles W. Kaufman has been named director of re-
search and development for the General Foods Corporation,
New York, New York.

William J. Brooks, Jr., is Sales and Service District Man-
ager for Pontiac Motor Division, Pontiac, Michigan, and has
as his territory the entire state of Arkansas and part of Texas.

Simon M. Painter is teaching in Bedford High School,
Bedford, Virginia, and half-owner of Carlyle’s Dairy.

Richard T. Edwards has been Mayor of the City of Roan-
oke, Virginia, since 1946, and is practicing law in that city at
the Colonial Bank Building. He is married and has two sons,
Richard and John.

Howard D. Carver is with the Transportation Depart-
ment—Canada Dry Ginger Ale, Inc., 1900 South Maywood
Drive, Maywood, Illinois. After March 1, 1947, his new ad-
dress is 1121 Oakton Street, Evanston, Illinois.

Edward Harvey Pringle has been appointed manager of
the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company at New Brunswick,
New Jersey. His home is at 339 Branch Avenue, Red Bank,
New Jersey.

Donald K. Crawford is a partner in the law firm of Arnold
and Crawford, Elkins, West Virginia. His partner, D. Hill
Arnold, is an A.B. of the Class of 1901.

John L. Ericson is Prosecuting Attorney for the City of
New Britain, Connecticut. He was in Lexington for Home-
coming and promises to return for Finals.

1934

Fred L. Fox is District Manager of Sales, Superior Steel
Corporation, Carnegie, Pennsylvania. Home address: 704
Crestview Drive, Rutherford Acres, Bridgeville, Pennsylvania.

Carlton V. Ware, Jr., is in field seed, cotton seed, ferti-
lizer and insecticide business under the firm name of C. V.
Ware & Son, Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He married an Atlanta,
Georgia, girl and they have two sons, Carlton Hames and
Allen Robert.

W. W. (Bill) Barron is practicing law in Elkins, West
Virginia. He is married and has two children. He served three
years with the Army, being discharged in December, 1945.

John A. Hanley, III, is an attorney-special agent of F.B.L.,
and lives at 792-29th Avenue, North, St. Petersburg, Florida.

Joseph M. Friedman is in the restaurant equipment and
supplies business at 224 Main Street, Danville, Virginia.

Farrar Newberry, Jr., is State Manager of South Carolina
for Woodmen of the World Life Insurance Society and Presi-
dent of South Carolina Fraternal Congress. Address: 209-210
Carolina Life Building, Columbia, South Carolina.

Everett Tucker, Jr., is associated with his father in the
operation of a cotton plantation, commissary and gin in
Tucker, Arkansas.

Samuel A. Woolford has spent his entire business career
with John Lucas, Inc., of which firm he is now Manager, Re-
tail Stores Division. Address: 322 Race Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

G. Jefferds Stephens is a Utilization Analyst, and lives at
17 Stewart Place, White Plains, New York.

Layne H. Ford is still with the Unemployment Compensa-
tion Board of Review, serving as examiner in charge, with
eight lawyers on his staff. His headquarters are in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, but his mailing address is still P. O. Box
534, Grafton, West Virginia.

Thomas D. Anderson, who was associated for twelve years
with the law firm of Andrews, Kurth, Campbell and Bradley,
became Vice-President and Trust Officer of the Union Na-
tional Bank, Houston, Texas, on April 1, 1947.

Rodney Massie is Loan Guaranty Claims Agent, Veterans
Administration, in Huntington, West Virginia, with offices
in the West Virginia Building. He married Mary Margaret
Barnard of Morgantown, West Virginia, and they have two
lovely little girls.

1935

W. Richard (Dick) Dunaj is working in the Bureau of
Aeronautics in Electronics for the Navy Department. He is
still interested in athletics but has time now only for duckpin
bowling; has been elected president of the Navy Department
Bowling League for the second season and is a member of
the standing committee of the Washington City Duckpin As-
sociation. Address: 2818 Crest Avenue, Cheverly, Maryland.

C. H. Fitzwilson is still working for Carnegie Illinois
Steel as a Contact Metallurgist and handles all factories’

[31 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

problems for the American Can Company’s central division,
which covers quite a territory. He also handles all the re-
search and developmental work connected with the science
of packing fruit in tin cans, and says there’s a lot more to
it than meets the ye. Address: 1711 West Fifth Avenue, Gary,
Indiana.

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins, after graduation, received his M.D.
from Jefferson Medical College in 1939. He is specializing in
obstetrics and gynecology, and is a Staff Member of Chest-
nut Hill Hospital, Roxborough Memorial Hospital, Abington
Memorial Hospital, Germantown Hospital and Florence Crit-
tenden Home. Address: 525 East Mount Airy Avenue, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Robert F. Cooper is Special Agent with the U.S. De-
partment of Justice. After graduation from Washington and
Lee he received the LL.B. degree from Jefferson School of
Law, Louisville, Kentucky, and is now a member of the
Kentucky, Mississippi, and U.S. Supreme Court Bars. He
married Mary Miller Wells and they have a daughter, Mary
Emily, born July 31, 1944. Address: 1308 Masonic Temple
Building, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Winthrope C. Smith is a research chemist with Standard
Oil Development Company, Bayway, New Jersey. Home ad-
dress: 734 Boulevard, Westfield, New Jersey.

1936

Hugh (Hugo) J. Bonino is president of the Atlantic
Chemical Company, textile consultants and manufacturing
chemists, Centredale, Rhode Island; vice-president Roxbury
Chemical Works, Inc., and treasurer Centredale Enterprises,
Inc. He has been playing professional football with Provi-
dence Steam Rollers since 1941.

Bruce N. Lanier is in the textile business at West Point,
Georgia. He married Jane Dickson and they have four sons,
Bruce, Jr., George, III, Lewis and John.

Paul G. Hervey has completed his fifth year as superin-
tendent of the Enloe, Texas, public schools. He and Mrs.
Hervey were married in Lee Chapel just before his gradua-
tion and promised themselves they would certainly visit
the campus by 1940. That visit is now seven years overdue.

Charlie Sweet is Trust Officer with the North Side Bank
and Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut. He is one of the
youngest trust officers in the United States. After receiving
the B.A. degree (summa cum laude) from Washington and
Lee, he graduated with the LL.B. degree from Harvard Law
School.

Al Durante is Radio Publicity Director, J. Walter Thomp-
son Company, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York.

G. Roger Myers, Jr., M.D., has opened offices for the
general practice of Medicine and Surgery at 17 North Orange
Avenue, El Cajon, California.

1937

Walter G. (Tex) Lehr, after receiving his discharge from
the service, came back to San Antonio, Texas, and went into
the real estate business in partnership with his brother, Ralph
E. Lehr, *41. Address: 2119 Alamo National Building, San
Antonio, Texas.

George W. Lowry is Assistant Cashier, Oklahoma Na-
tional Bank, Clinton, Oklahoma.

Laurence W. (Larry) Wilson, Jr., is a salesman for
Greensboro Overall Company, Greensboro, North Carolina.
He was back in Lexington with his family for Homecoming.

Frank H. Yaffe is a salesman for Red State Yeast Com-
pany, 221 East Buffalo Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

William C. Wilbur has been granted a year’s leave of ab-
sence from his teaching duties at Muhlenberg College. Al-
lentown, Pennsylvania, to complete work on his Ph.D dis-
sertation, and he and his wife sailed for England on Septem-
ber 23. He will be working as a research student at the Lon-
don School of Economics and Political Science, and expects
to be in England until some time in June, 1948. Address from
which mail will be forwarded: Route No. 5, Charleston, South
Carolina.

Alfred H. Wishnew is General Manager, Sheet Metal
Specialty Manufacturing Plant, 224 Center Street, New York
13, New York. He opened his own law offices upon admis-
sion to the New York State Bar in June, 1939, had two offices
at time of induction into service, but decided against return-
ing to law upon release.

Jim McClure, Jr., was elected to the Florida State Legis-
lature last year. He is married and has three children: Jim,
7; Willie, 4; and Maggie, 2. Address: 502 Empire Building,
St. Petersburg, Florida.

James P. Baker took a law refresher course at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas soon after his discharge from the Army in
November, 1945, and resumed his practice of law in Helena,
Arkansas, on June 3, 1946. Last November he was elected
to a four year term in the State Senate and has just completed
the first session. Address: 221 St. Andrews Terrace, West
Helena, Arkansas.

Edwin M. Marks, Class Agent for '37-Law, is kept busy
with his duties as Controller for Goldsmith’s Department
Store, Memphis, Tennessee. He has a wife and two little
daughters and his hobby is making movies of the family.

1938

Austin J. Rittenhouse, after two years service in the Army,
returned last April to the State Department where he is In-
telligence Analyst, Office of Intelligence Research. Address
from which mail will be forwarded: 2900 Adams Mill Road,
N. W., Washington 9, D. C.

John B. Simmons is a Special Agent Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation. Home address: 3563 83rd Street, Jackson Heights,
New York.

J. Hiram Smith, after getting his discharge from the Army,
rested up for a couple of months and then went with the
United States Geological Survey. Mail will be forwarded
from: Sheridan Hotel, Lexington, Virginia.

John E. Neill is a college textbook representative for
Henry Holt & Company, Publishers, 257 Fourth Avenue,
New York, New York.

A. Milton Morrison is a salesman for Humble Oil & Re-
fining Company, Houston, Texas. He married Caroline Foulks
and they have a daughter Mary Caroline, born December 18,
1946. Home address: 2026 Morse, Apartment Number 1,
Houston 6, Texas.

Thomas C. Nugent, Jr., is President of Nugent Sand Com-
pany, 627 River Road, Louisville 7, Kentucky.

[ 32 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Major Herbert C. Clendening is teaching in the Depart-
ment of Electricity, United States Military Academy, West
Point, New York.

William H. Hillier has been associated with the law firm
of Lord, Bissell and Kadyk since 1946, with offices at Room
2400, 135 South LaSalle Street, Chicago 5, Illinois.

John D. Sterrett was elected treasurer of Rockbridge
County, Virginia, in the November, 1947, elections.

1939

Thomas W. Bradley spent four years in the Navy and is
now Personnel Manager and Public Relations Director in
Big Jack Overall Manufacturing Company, Bristol, Vir-
ginia- Tennessee.

Maurice J. Swan, Jr., is president of the K-9 Tag Company.
He started this business immediately after graduation and
has been with it since except for a period during the war
when he served in the Quartermaster Corps in a civilian
capacity. He has recently moved to larger quarters at 743
Chicago Avenue, Evanston, Illinois, and reports that busi-
ness is good.

Sherwin B. French has been with the Detroit Times,
Times Square, Detroit, Michigan, since 1939; first in the mer-
chandising and market research department for 3 years, in-
terrupted by 39 months in the Army, and now in the advertis-
ing department. Home address: 2239 Burns Avenue, Detroit
14, Michigan.

Warren H. Edwards did some cramming in the Law
School at the University of Florida, catching up for the five
years spent in the Marine Corps. He is now practicing law in
the First National Bank Building in Orlando, Florida.

W. Roy Hogan is head petroleum geologist with Erle P.
Halliburton, Inc., Duncan, Oklahoma. Home Address: 1111
Pine Street, Duncan, Oklahoma.

Joseph C. Murphy interrupted his professional career for
Army service, but has recently successfully passed the New
Jersey State Bar examinations. He is associated with Bowers
and Rinehart, attorneys-at-law, in Somerville, New Jersey,
and lives at 51 West Orchard Street, Somerville.

1940

Herbert Garges is a Food Broker, Room 611, American
Savings Bank Building, Atlanta, Georgia. Home address: 70
Princeton Way, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

William C. Washburn, after release from the service and
a month’s terminal leave, started work at the Gulf States
Paper Corporation, Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where he is now
purchasing agent. He married Elizabeth Lancaster, a Sweet
Briar girl, and they have two sons, William, Jr., and Dabney.

George Foote, after graduation, attended Tulane Law
School until he went into the Marine Corps in 1941. Upon his
release from the service he returned to Tulane, where he
graduated in June, was admitted to the Bar, and is now prac-
ticing law, with offices in the Guaranty Bank Building, Alex-
andria, Louisiana.

Eugene Kramer is working with District Theatres Cor-
poration, 1212 Vee Street N.W., Washington, D.C. Since
his release from the Army in 1946 he has acquired a wife
and a son.

Joe Billingsly, Jr., attended The George Washington Uni-
versity Law School after release from the service and is now
practicing law and farming at King George C. H., Virginia.

Louis F. Plummer is with Fruehouf Trailer Company, 525
Peters Street, S. W., Atlanta, Georgia.

Sydney Lewis attended Harvard Business School after
graduation from Washington and Lee, and is now practicing
law at Broad-Grace Arcade, Richmond, Virginia.

Jackson G. Akin is now associated with the firm of Rod-
ney, Dickason & Sloan, Attorneys-at-Law, First National
Bank Building, Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Harry R. Stephenson, Jr., is practicing law as partner in
firm of Kendrick and Stephenson, Greenville, South Carolina.
He married Catherine Lawder and they have a daughter,
Susan Jane, born June 26, 1945.

1941

A. T. (Junie) Bishop is Zone Manager, Southeast In-
diana for Indiana Tractor Sales, Inc., distributor of the Ford
Tractor and Implements. He married Helen Lewis in 1941
and they are living at 426 North East Street, Greensburg,
Indiana.

John D. Durhan, after leaving school here, was graduated
as an Advertising Artist from Grand Central School of Art
in 1941, was inducted into the Army and served three years
in the Anti-aircraft and a year and a half in the Infantry,
from which he was discharged with the rank of Captain. He
then entered Pratt Institute where he completed an Adver-
tising Refresher course this spring. He is now a Commercial
Artist. He married Victoria Forbes, of Riverside, California,
in 1943, and they are living at 2 Roselle Avenue, Pleasantville,
New York.

William J. Keeler, after service as lead pilot with the Army
Air Corps with the 8th Air Force, was returned to inactive
status as a captain in September, 1945; graduated from the
University of Buffalo Law School in August, 1946, and is now
practicing law, having two offices, one in Buffalo, New York,
and the other in Lockport, New York. Address: 520-522 El-
licott Square, Buffalo 3, New York.

Robert M. Jeter is now with the law firm of Tucker, Bron-
son and Martin, Commercial Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.
He was married May 11, 1946, to Katherine Brash of Gulf-
port, Mississippi. She is also an Attorney-at-Law in the state
of Louisiana.

William Buchanan is now Associate Director of the Bicen-
tennial program at Washington and Lee. He was formerly
Publicity Director, Roanoke College, Salem, Virginia.

George W. Faison, Jr., is sales engineer with Ingersoll-
Rand Company, 11 Broadway, New York 4, New York.

Donald C. Taggart is working for the Tissue Converting
Company, Inc., of Greenwood, New Jersey, converters of
facial tissue—their product “S’wipes.” Address: 1070 Wych-
wood Road, Westfield, New Jersey.

Claude Walker was discharged from the Navy in Janu-
uary, 1946, and is now in the Cotton business, Joseph Walker
& Company, Columbia, South Carolina. He was married in
January, 1947. Address: Box 359, Columbia, South Carolina.

Frank Bedinger is practicing law in Boydton, Virginia.

[ 33 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Al Fleishman is in business with his father in Anderson,
South Carolina, operating Fleishman’s department store.

Peter Barrow, Jr., is an attorney-at-law and Chairman of
the Board and Vice-President of Nicholas Lumber Company,
Inc., Richwood, West Virginia.

1942

Robert T. Vaughan is a member of the law firm of Easley
& Edmunds, South Boston, Virginia, and Halifax, Virginia.

W. John Daniel was released from the Navy in 1946, and
is now accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company
in Memphis, Tennessee. Address: 2054 Harbert Avenue,
Memphis 4, Tennessee.

F. L. (Creepy) La Motte, Jr., was in school at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, in June, 1947. He ex-
pected to go next to California to get some experience in his
field, and eventually to South America. Home address: Cow-
pens Farm, Towson, Maryland.

Dan Lewis, Jr., was at Harvard Business School when his
class letter was written in May. Reports quite a large num-
ber of Washington and Lee alumni now at Harvard, who get
together occasionally to renew old friendships and “get the
lowdown” on each other.

Paul R. Zumkeller is assistant manager in men’s and boy’s
department, Ackermann Bros., Department Store, Elgin,
Illinois. He was married February 1, 1947, to Marilyn Coun-
tryman. Address: 471 Douglas Avenue, Elgin, Illinois.

Ned H. Brower is a junior executive with Beau Brummel
Ties, Cincinnati, Ohio. He was married in 1945 and has a son,
Paul Alan, born May 9, 1946. Address: 5130 Reading Road,
Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

Richard F. Burke, III, is now with Jas. A. Scott & Son,
Inc., 203 Lynch Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Robert F. Wersel is Management Consultant with Dillard
Bird Associates, Cincinnati, Ohio. He married Marjorie J.
Batsner and they have a son, Robert F., Jr., born July 31,
1947. Address, 3636 Victoria Lane, Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

* Jack McMillan spent 22 months in Europe as a Troop
Carrier Pilot and was discharged in September, 1945. He is
now with the Perrin Oil Company, Harvey, Louisiana, and
his home address is 1616 Valmont Street, New Orleans, La.

Green Rives, Jr., is with the W. C. Nabors Company,
manufacturers of Nabors Trailers, Mansfield, Louisiana.

Horace Jeter received his Master in Business Adminis-
tration from Harvard Business School in June. He expects
to settle in Shreveport. Address: 4534 Fairfield Avenue,
Shreveport, Louisiana.

Bob Root, after separation from the Navy last August,
continued his Naval Intelligence and Photographic Inter-
pretation work in a Civil Service status. When his class let-
ter was written in May he expected to re-enter college this
fall. He is married and has a daughter a little over a year old.

1943

Walter R. Browder received the degree of M.A. in Jour-
nalism from Columbia University, New York, in May, 1947.
Address: 268 Henry Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Bob Campbell is a reporter on the Asheville Citizen-Times.
He received his M.S. in Journalism from Columbia in June.
Address: 6 Pierson Drive, Asheville, North Carolina.

Bob Schellenberg says he is still working for his father,
as his assistant and handy man, in the Nylon business. Ad-
dress: “The Cabin,” Bear Creek, Pennsylvania.

William J. (Bill) Noonan is working with his father in
the heavy construction business—Noonan Construction Com-
pany, Box 470 Pensacola, Florida. He was married to Mar-
garet Loving in May, 1945, and they now have a son, William
Joseph, III.

Robert F. MacCachran has begun a year of post-graduate
study at the American Institute for Foreign Trade, Thunder-
bird Field, P.O. Box 91, Phoenix, Arizona.

Robert P. Tyson has joined the staff of Life magazine as
Retail Representative. He served with the U.S. Coast Guard
from September, 1942, until June, 1946, returned to Wash-
ington and Lee, receiving his B.S. degree in the School of
Journalism in 1947, Address: 212 St. Georges Road, Ardmore,
Pennsylvania.

1944

B. L. (Pete) Redman is a salesman with The Farmers
Fertilizer Company, Columbus 16, Ohio. He married Eliza-
beth Ann Elwood and they have a daughter, Judith Ann, born
May 28. After a stretch in the Air Corps, Pete returned to
Washington and Lee to take his B.S. degree last year.

Lloyd Jackson Lanich is now attending the School of Ad-
vanced International Studies in Washington, D. C. Address:
1906 Florida Avenue, N. W.

John C. Hempel, Jr., after four months in Sears Roebuck
retail training program, went into the tanning and leather
business with Eagle Ottawa Leather Company, Grand Ha-
ven, Michigan. Home address: 6834 Jeffery Avenue, Chicago
49, Illinois.

1945

Dr. Charles H. Stone, III, took his medical course at the
University of Pennsylvania, and is interning at Philadelphia
General Hospital. He married Mary Frances Zeigen and
they have a son, Charles Henry IV, born March 14, 1947.
Address: 506 South 41st Street, Philadelphia 4, Pennsylvania.

Willard F. Searle, Jr., Ensign, U. S. Navy, returned to the
States last January and found himself with the prospect of
several months in the Navy Yard in New York. He married
Margaret Early Jackson in 1945 and they have a daughter,
Margaret Jane, born August 1, 1946. Home address: 167
South Roosevelt Avenue, Columbus 9, Ohio.

Don Monroe Casto, Jr., has been associated with his father
in real estate building and development. He married Betty
Grover and they have two children, Don Monroe, III, and
Ann Chilton. Address: 145 North High Street, Columbus,
Ohio.

1946

Albert H. Woodruff is in Graduate School, University of
Virginia. Address: 12 Varsity Hall, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia.

John J. Kelly, III, is still at the Medical College of Vir-
ginia, now in his senior year. He was married to Helen Ruth-
erford Handy. Address: 20 Maxwell Road, Richmond, Va.

[ 34 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Marriages

1929

Alfred Caruthers Junkin and Sara Adeline Curry were
married in Richmond, Virginia, September 2, 1947.

1930

William Bestor Brown was married to Mary Virginia
Pounds Lassiter on November 1, 1947.

1935
Edmund Roger Griswold was married to Margaret Gard-
ner on September 20, 1947, in Maplewood, New Jersey. They
will make their home in East Orange, New Jersey.

1937

W. Carlton Bernard was married to Shirley Podret Krout,
September 1, 1947, in New York City.

1938
Chandler Price Berryman was married to Dorothy Butin
on November 9, 1947, in Fredonia, Kansas. They will live
at 1505 Broadway, Parsons, Kansas.

1939

James G. Lamb, Jr., was married to Ellenor Josephine
Smith on September 6, 1947, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

1940

Dr. Ralph Parr Baker was married to Frances Elizabeth
Renwick on November 14, in Newberry, South Carolina.

1941
Charles Cameron Dean was married to Evelyn Lambeth
on November 18, 1947.
1942
John G. Martire was married to Elizabeth Hoyt on Au-
gust 23, 1947, in White Plains, New York.
Robert Douglas Gage, III, was married to Frances Gard-
ner on September 24, 1947, in Jackson, Tennessee.

John Walter Stowers was married to Betty Spann on Sep-
tember 2, 1947, in Dothan, Alabama.

1943

Lieutenant (j.g.) Norman Francis Wyatt was married to
Miss Frances Jay Cushman, September 6, 1947, in Dedham,
Massachusetts.

1946

James Lee Scott was married to Nancy Bentley on Sep-

tember 20, 1947, in Durham, North Carolina.

Births
1927
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Burks of Louisville, Kentucky,
are the parents of a son, George Richard Burks, II, born
September 24, 1947.
1936
Mr. and Mrs. David G. Basile are the parents of a daughter,
born August 10, 1947. David is Information Officer of the Co-
ordination Committee for Ecuador with the American Lega-
tion, Quito, Ecuador.
1938
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Skinner, III, are the parents of
a son, Charles, Jr., born August 9, 1947.

1939
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Pendleton Gaines, Jr., are the par-
ents of a second son, Paul Randolph, born November 16,
1947, in Lexington, Virginia
1941

Mr. and Mrs. Willard H. Keland are the parents of a
daughter, Katherine Nikolina K. Keland, born September 21,
1947.

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Kerr are the parents of a daugh-
ter, Katherine McColl Kerr, born November 1, 1947, in Pine-
hurst, North Carolina.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Clarendon Smith are the parents of
a daughter, Carolyn C. Carothers, born September 27, 1947.

Mr. and Mrs. William Buchanan are the parents of a son,
Daniel, born October 21, 1947, in Roanoke, Virginia. Bill is
now associate director of the Bicentennial program.

1942
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Spindle, III, have a daughter,
Kay Landa Spindle, born August 20, 1947, in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Lemkuhl, Jr., have a daughter,
Laura Dorsey Lemkuhl, born November 25, 1947.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Eshelman are the parents of a son
born September 16, 1947. Home: 106 West Decatur Street,
Decatur, Illinois.

In Memoriam

1879

James W. Beattie died at his home in Louisvalle, Ken-
tucky, October 3, 1947.
1888

Judge Henry W. Holt, LL.B. ’88, LL.D. ’29, Phi Beta
Kappa, chief justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Vir-
ginia, died of a heart attack on October 4, 1947, at his home
in Staunton, Virginia.

1890

Edwin T. Coman, banker and lawyer, died at his home in
San Rafael, California, July 21, 1947.

1899
Charles F. Harrison died at his home in Leesburg, Vir-
ginia, on September 26, 1947.
1908

Ernest L. Beale died November 15, 1947, at his home in
Franklin, Virginia.
1918

Thomas Gibson Woodson died in August 1947, in Tampa,
Florida.

Edward Hoyt Schwarz of Danville, Virginia, and Durham,
North Carolina, died at the Watts Hospital in Durham, North
Carolina, on November 16, 1947.

1925
Roy C. Slack died October 10, 1947, in New York City.

1926
Buford Faldow Sperry of Paris, Texas, died September
17, 1947.

[35 ]

 

 

 

 

The War Is Over!

 

 

SECRECY

Is No Longer

Necessary
@

Therefore, if you have not already done so, please fill
out and return to this office the questionnaire you received some-
time ago. We need that information about you to edit a com-
plete and accurate Alumni Directory—one that will be a
fitting publication for Washington and Lee’s Bicentennial
year. If you have mislaid the questionnaire, a card to that

effect will produce another copy for you.

Thank you for your kind cooperation

The Alumni Directory Office

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

