 

 

ng ae

 

 

 

 

#
‘
i
x

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Homecoming

NOVEMBER 7

 

University of Virginia

VS.

Washington and Lee

 

Homecoming

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian

G. W. Summerson, Bristol, Va.
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia ae

Alex M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland

John C. Hoover, 4428 Marble Hall Road
Birmingham, Alabama

John F. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

CG. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

W. R. Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio

E. Clyde Hoge, 1426 Clay Street
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

Carl V. Harris
Cumberland Valley

Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

W.R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Memphis, Tennessee

L. V. Butler, 60 S. Front Street
New York, New York

Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. Dewey Davis
Roanoke, Virginia

E. H. Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California,

Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State

George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Dee me

. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.

Charles F. Suter, Union Trust Building
Waynesboro, Virginia

Tom L. Seehorn

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XVIII OCTOBER, 1942 No. 1

 

Milton oe Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor....GREORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presiden Joun C. Morrison, 1925
pecretary. 6: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TVORSUT EF EO, Dr. Rew Waite, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

C. T. CHENERY, 1909
R. G. WuHiIrTt te, 1924
Rocrer Bear, 1914
jJoun LL. Cris, 1913
Ricuarp T. Epwarps, 1933

PAGE

Moment of Destiny (The President's Pare) ...0..70 3 2

The 194th Session Opens. .6.. us Si 3

Wright, (13: in trportant (ice ee :

Poothball-at Wand 1.1m Wartime <5..44. 565 no 6

A abit to Dr “Tucker...2 9. a 8

Additions to List of Alumni in Service.......00cccccc 9

In Memoria 25.7... Fa eer a ee is

(“Ctags Woes ee ee 17

 

Our Front Cover

Pictured on the cover are the 56 sons of alumni who
are registered at the University this session. For a

listing of the names of sons and fathers, refer to page 4.

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Moment of Destiny

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

 

ya time when most of
A our thoughts turn to
the future, I am writing
this page with less certain-
ty of prediction than I[
‘have known before.

ee oe

It would be pleasant to
comment on the session of
1941-42. That was a good
year, as the annual report,
just off the press, will cer-

tify. Attendance held up

 

well; the quality of appli-
cation showed improvement, testimony to the deepening
seriousness of our boys; no deficit in the operating budget
appears; a reasonable addition. to our resources in the
way of gifts was contributed; the University, in addition
to its regular offering of courses, directed a variety of
helpful services for the understanding and promotion

of the war. ae ae

With some degree of composure, I could discuss the
present session, just under way. Except for the School of
Law, which shows marked decline, the enrollment ex-
ceeds our expectancies of the summer. Class-work is pro-
ceeding normally. Standards of instruction have not suf-
fered. Again we offer numerous courses designed to give
boys a special fitness for the imperative of the present
crisis. he several reserve units, all operative in our
school, give at least a momentary promise of allowing the
students to complete their academic work, or a large part
of it. eo

The uncertainty in the minds of all college people—I
mean those connected with men’s colleges, and particularly
non-military colleges for men—arises from speculation as
to what may happen next session, and thereafter for the

duration of the war.
k ok x

At this moment the discussions go on in the Congress,

following the specific recommendation of the President,

for the lowering of the draft age to 18. It is highly prob-
able that the change will be made. These younger boys
will not ke just additions to the total number of the regis-
tered men; these youngsters will be the highly desirable
persons, and will almost certainly be placed quickly under
military responsibilities.
ee es

It does not yet appear whether these young men will
be allowed to continue in college until actually needed,
either in the present pattern of separate reserve units for
the several services or in some unified corps, or whether
they will be inducted as promptly as possible into the mili-
tary forces if not immediately into the combat units and
then receive only such specialized training as the mill-
tary authorities may deem essential for that combat ser-

vice, or for the auxiliary tasks connected with the military

effort.
x Ok Ok

Upon the answer to that question will depend, I feel
sure, the history of Washington and Lee for the next few
years. And the answer to that question has not yet been

framed.
: *k Ok Ok

To the alumni I can hardly say more than this: Wash-
ington and Lee will continue to try to give good training,
under whatever conditions, and will seek with all its en-
ergies to help in the winning of this war. All the future
of Washington and Lee, whatever the impending months
may bring to it, depend upon winning this war.

eS

To the Government, we do not say “Save the Col-
leges!’”” Rather we say, “Use the Colleges.’’ We believe
the institutions of higher learning, and undoubtedly
Washington and Lee, can be of incalculable service for

the emergency and for the better world that, pray God,

Oe Le cee

resident

will follow.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Sons of Alumni entering this year—First row: Howard Wilkins, Patrick C. Devine, Franklin Bert Pulley, Paul Murphy, Jr.,
William Douglas Cooper, Homer S. Bryant, Jr., John J. Kelly, III; Second row: S. Laird Harman, Roger Winbourne, Jr.,
Oliver McClintock, L. J. Boxley, Jr., Ray S. Smith Jr., Clifford Sperow, Jr., T. C. Bowen, Jr.

The 194th Session Opens

By Hat KELLER, ’42

Ts great question for Washington and Lee this year
probably will not be answered until after November.
This question is: will the draft age be lowered to include
boys of eighteen? Until that is answered, it would be
hard to make an intelligent estimate of the meaning of
this year’s opening of school. If the plan for taking boys
of freshman age into the army were carried out, and if
no special deferment were allowed for those in institu-
tions of higher education, all colleges with any men stu-

dents would be hard hit—Washington and Lee more than
most.

That is the dark cloud on the horizon. Otherwise, the
picture here looks much as usual: the fall leaves begin to
brighten; the campus is still green; the white pillars
shine out as always. In this setting the neatly-dressed
undergraduates wander back and forth from class to fra-
ternity house, with apparently nothing unpleasant on their
youthful minds—which 1s naturally far from the truth.

[3 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee. University

 

Interspersed among these boys are 205 freshmen and
22 transfers; last year there were 261 freshmen and 34
transfers. This is a far smaller loss, one imagines, than
the authorities had expected. Altogether, as of October
1, there are 666 boys in school, a decrease of 229 men.
Of the 205 freshmen, 104 attended freshman camp.

In 1941 there were 895 students and about 51 profes-
sors. Now, with 666 students, there are at least. 16
fewer faculty members. (These figures are decidedly
approximate because the picture changes so fast.) As the
number of students decreases, the number of faculty de-
creases, which should even things up nicely except that
a saturation point will have to come sometime. ‘To re-
place faculty members at the present moment is difficult.

Yet the faculty of Washington and Lee is at present
capable of carrying on. Further changes will modify it,
but there is no reason to believe that instructional facili-
ties will not be sufficient. In spite of all the departures,
it has been necessary, this year, to add only two men to
replace those who have left: Dr. James Holt Starling,
late of Duke, in the department of Biology, and E. Car-
lyle Lynch, ’32, as instructor in science and drawing. The
list of members of the faculty who have left to aid in the
war has been printed in this magazine before, and a more
complete list will appear later.

Of the 56 alumni sons registered this year, 14 are
freshmen and 42 are upperclassmen. One alumnus,
Iaeutenant-Commander Charles J. Devine, °16, has two
sons in school, Charles, a junior, and Pat, a freshman.

The list of sons of alumni follows:

son Father
William Franklin Allison....2.c60.005% *George W. Allison, ’10
Pera AAKINS, FP ig siais aca J. B. Atkins, ’20
Toe Pliseins  Baoeye ees cysts Charles F. Bagley, ’07
Bimmet Warren Barger, Jr........:... Emmet Warren Barger, ’11
age 0 Ses Pe a Paul DD: Barns, 71/7
TeGte WWHSOR THEN PF cacccrsy yacdiomcdecscsas Jesse Benton, 719
Fhemoson ©. Bowen, Frauds Thompson C. Bowen, ’97
George Henry Bowers, Jr............... George Henry Bowers, ’23
be DORE se i eee L. J. Boxley, ‘09
Ry arer Browaer, 1G). ack aes *Walter Browder, 14
Proner 5, Mrvant (ts a Homer S. Bryant, ’20
Standrod ‘Tucker: Carmichael... St. G: 1: Carmichael; "99
Walter Lapsiey Carson, Jfr..:.::.....:. Walter Lapsley Carson, 715
C. ddckh Christians Pe a seccekcns ss taes C. Lynch: Christian, 16
William “Douglas > COODER. fc iicis. Goins Eugene B. Cooper, 14
Frederick Richmond Cottrell ae oi Joe Hobson, ’20
sob PL etcier Crist, IF iaicWcina es john. 1,. Crist, 13
Rapert: Oscar Crokett, Jr siiiccsdeccsiens Robert O. Crockett, ’02
William Alexander Davidson................ Dr. Hi 2. Davidson, “13
Charles Devine, Jf. cso Lt. Comdr. Charles J. Devine, ’16
Powick C. Devine cai Lt. Comdr. Charles J. Devine, ’16
Charles Niles Grosvenor, Jr............. Charles N. Grosvenor, 12
Rebert Shicids Guerrant:...0.0.ci.c.sce bce *S. S. Guerrant, 86
Letenza jonn Hammack. 1t......secc 1; 9. Hanimack,’1/
SAMICS  PEAPIIAN, 185 0c ceucyeeests yee eo vecenteeners J.. Wy fiaeman, 04
Paar Fi eea ec la ae J. W. Harman, 704
Leen. “Harris: Frees As Leon Harris, 715

Hwite GO. Piinipnteys,. 1b ik: cia Ewing S. Humphreys, ’10
J. Morrison Pitcheson, 16s cen Dr: J: M. Hutcheson, 02
Vincent lente a seein... Brig. Genl. Robert Ignico, 18
Aree Te hel pee edeee vee dt Omer T. Kaylor, ’11
Eieiry “We Beli Py esis ined the Wo Kelly. 13
John Jacksow Welly. U1 bioscience. ii sassccenase Jo je ely er i2
W. Courtney. King, Fr ais W. Courtney King, ’21
Kissell ieee ois tpae essence H; iRise 46
Oliver. NicCintecie 35 a QO. W:. McClintock, ’23
Willian McCoy ie a William McCoy, ’02
JOnn Mannce Miller. ieee ik +..M. Maller, 15
Barton Morris, Gif ii ae a) Barton W. Morris, ’19
Paul 7. Bo Murohy, Jf Lt Col Paul J.B. Murphy, 14
Wilham Benry Oast, Trios ceccces: William Henry Oast, 15
Pip awers © ae 1h gt cir PP. P. Page, 06
Franklin Bert: Pulley ic3 3 Ak his + W.: Pulley 3
Stanley 1): Sacks. (03 go a, Herman A. Sacks, ‘11
menetny SH rei Kenelm Shirk, 715
ain oilverstet, Pres satccksiesicaees ec eid Sam Silverstein, 717
Pier rt mii a es ee ee Herbert Smith, 717
ay Or OHNE, JE ie ns Ray S. Smith, ’14
Cittord Seerow, 76s ivistccvc ie *Dr. Clifford Sperow, ’95
ROSCOE” SLED NeNnSON, fi... ese Roscoe Stephenson, ’08
POR WV ae Pe sh ics ea Alex M. Walker, ’20
Waa Wien, Jf)... oa ee We. 4, Wileox, 212
howard  NVilkis ki ee -Walter Wilkins, 14
aniiee . ¢ WURaIsS. 5c oes Clayton E. Williams, 712
Fo@er VWiniDOurne, fle iecck eh Roger Winbourne, ’11
* Deceased

According to the student directory, 36 states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and two United States territories are
represented in this year’s student body. Virginia again
leads the list with 138 men, followed by New York with
61 and Maryland wi-h 46. New Jersey, Ohio and Penn-
sylvania are fourth, fifth and sixth with 45, 36 and 34
representatives respectively. There are 22 men from the
District of Columbia, two from Puerto Rico and one
from Hawail.

One fraternity, the Washington and Lee chapter of
Delta Upsilon, has closed its house for the duration of
the war. In an announcement to the student body, the
president of the house said that the members were taking
rooms in town because the number of members return-
ing did not warrent keeping the house open. However,
the chapter will continue as an active chapter and, in
order to be together, will accept the invitation of the
Alpha Tau Omegas to eat at the ATO house.

 

PETE RopricukEz, °41, passed the Puerto Rico bar
examination on the 28th of last July and is now associated
with his father in the general practice of law at Lares,
his home town.

 

THE leading article in the September, 1942, issue of
the national magazine, 7aves, was contributed by Dean
Robert H. Tucker. It is entitled “The Excess Income
Tax as a Source of Federal Revenue.”

a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Wright, ‘13, in Important Office

ORMER State Senator William A. Wright, of Tappa-
Bee long regarded as one of the most popular
men who ever went to Washington and Lee University,
became chairman of the Virginia Conservation Com-
mission on August 1 by appointment of Governor Col-
gate W. Darden, Jr.

Mr. Wright, known to his friends all over the State
as “Billy,” received his B.A. degree at Washington and
Lee in 1913. After remaining out
of the University for a year, he
returned to Lexington and entered
the law school, receiving his law
degree in 1916.

In his undergraduate days at the
University, he lived for a time at
the home of his cousin, Dr. George
H. Denay then President ot
Washington and Lee, and now
Chancellor of the University of
Alabama.

During his law school days, he
shared quarters with the late Clovis
Moomaw, of Roanoke, who at the
time was a member of the law
school faculty and who shortly
thereafter, as did Mr. Wright, en-
tered the U.S, Army. Mr." Moo-
maw, who like Mr. Wright, was
a great favorite at the University,
lost his life with the American
Overseas Forces.

Few students ever took more delight in the life of the
University than did Mr. Wright. He was keenly in-
terested in every phase of it, and nothing gives him more
pleasure now than to return here and renew his ac-
quaintance with members of the faculty whom he knew
in his student days, and also with the people of Lexing-
ton with whom he fell completely in love.

He was a member of the undergraduate fraternity of
Phi Kappa Psi and the legal fraternity of Phi Delta Phi.
He is also a member of the famed “13 Club,’ and Pan
and Sigma ribbon societies. In 1939 he was made an
honorary member of the Washington and Lee chapter
ol Omicron Delta Kappa.

Although Mr. Wright is still comparatively young—
51 years of age—he has long taken a prominent part in

 

William A. Wright, 713

the public life of the State. He was a member of the
House of Delegates of the Virginia General Assembly
from 1924 through the biennial session of 1930, and two
years later he was elevated to the State Senate, represent-
ing the counties of Essex, King and Queen, Middlesex,
Gloucester, Mathews and York. He remained a leading
member of the upper branch of the General Assembly
until he resigned early in July to accept his appointment
as chairman. of the Conservation

 

Commission.

~ In the Senate he served on the
most powerful committees, and at
the time of his retirement was
chairman of the Committee on
Roads. Previously he had _ been
chairman of the Fish and Game
Committee. His other Senate as-
signments included the equally po-
tent committees of Finance, Privi-
leges and Elections, Steering,
Courts 61- Justice; and Speetal;
Private and Local Legislature.

He successfully managed the
campaign of the late Saxon W.
Holt, of Newport News, for Lieu-
tenant-Governor in 1937, and sub-
sequently directed one of the
State’s most successful Jackson
Day dinner campaigns.

He is a °member. of: the. State
Democratic Committee, and in
1940 was the presidential elector-at-large.

During the World War, he went overseas as a first
lieutenant in the infantry, and at first was stationed at
headquarters of the Sixth Corps. Later he saw service at
the front of the Meuse-Argonne sector near Metz and
had been in action three months in that area when the
Armistice was signed. After serving several months with
the Army of Occupation, he returned to the United
States in the latter part of 1919 and was assigned to duty
in California, but a short time later he was demobilized
at Camp Lee, near Petersburg.

Senator Wright, who is unmarried, is a member of
the vestry of the Fpiscopal Church at Tappahannock, a
Mason, Rotarian and Ruritan. He organized and is vice-

(Continued on page 13)

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Football at W. and L. in Wartime

By WALLy Crayton and At DarBy

LTHOUGH we've been conceded the ‘weak sister’ of the
A Big Six and Southern Conference this year, the Gen-
erals will win some games,” predicted Paul A. “Jerry” Hol-
stein, Washington and Lee’s new head football coach, as
his men prepared for their game here with Hampden-
Sydney, on October 17.

Holstein, a star lineman for the Blue in the late 1920s,
assumed duties as head football coach on August 11 after
the entire staff of
Head Coach Riley
Smith, Jack Hen-
nemier, Art Lewis
and: Waroid
“Cookie’’ Cun-
ningham had been
commissioned in
the Navy to assist
with the physical
fitness program.

Smith is now
stationed at. the
naval ait base
at Jacksonville,
Florida; Lewis
and Hennemier
are at Pensacola,
Florida, and Cun-
ningham is_ sta-
tioned at the pre-flight school at the University of
Georgia, in Athens.

Assisting Coach Holstein with the Generals this sea-
son, are H. K. “Cy” Young, alumni secretary, and R. A.
“Cap'n Dick” Smith, athletic director. Pres Brown, a
regular end last season, helped as end coach until called
into the Marines in early October. Perry Simmons, ’43,
is coaching the freshmen, assisted by Steve Hanasik, ’40.

Captain Bob Pinck, Joe Baugher, Brown, Bert Nel-
son, Charley Didier and Joe Littlepage were the seniors
on last year’s once victorious grid team, but seven other
lettermen and two promising sophomores failed to return

Riley Smith

in September.

Of irreparable loss to Holstein as he began his prac-
tice sessions early in the season, were Captain Bill Gray
and Roy Fabian, the 1941 regular guards, who were
called into the Navy and Army respectively ; Frank Socha,

 

the plunging fullback is now in the Army Air Corps;
Jack Tucek, captain of the ’41 frosh team, who entered
the U. S. Naval Academy three days before practice ses-
sions began; and Sam DiBlasi, another fine 1941 frosh
back, who signed a professional baseball contract with
the Boston Red Sox. Other lettermen of last season who
didn’t return were Marshall Steves, a guard, who also
has entered the Naval Academy; Floyd McKenna, now
in the Army Air
Force; and Paul
Skillman and Jim
Gratt, who. have
dropped out of
school.

Four  much-
used tackles, Lil-
lard <Ailor, John
Rulevich, Frank
DiLoreto and Bill
Furman, all
swered Holstein’s
first: €all jas did
eight other letter
winners from last
season. The eight
Bev Fitz-
patrick, a guard;
Jim Wheater, Jim

ali-

were

Harold Cunningham

Daves and Jack Roehl, all ends; and Paul Cavaliere, Ted

Ciesla, Harry Baugher and Dave Russell, a quartet of
backs.

Among the most promising sophomores were Dick
Working and Harry Harner, both backs, and the Norman
brothers, Dyke, a rugged center, and Ray, an end, as pre-
season practice started.

Stressing that the 1942 football team is being operated
on a physical training basis, preparing the men for “a
bigger fight than football,’ Coach Holstein has invited
the entire student body to participate. He said he was
“oiving the game back to the boys.”

As a result of his invitation, Holstein now has a
larger squad than the 1941 aggregation, despite a smal-
ler college enrollment. At least five of the men who have
seen considerable service in the first two games were men
who have never competed for the varsity grid team be-

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

eee

fore—Bill Babcock and Jay Cook, backs with the light-
weight team last year, who have shown promise in the
frst game. Sam Williams, who wasn’t out for football
last year, has been playing considerable ball at end, and
Bill McKelway, who never played any football before, is
another end with possibilities. Bob Mehorter, a guard, is
developing into one of the best linemen on the squad.

The gloomy outlook for the 1942 season has been
brightened considerably by the excellent morale and
spirit of the team. Coach Holstein has called the current
team “the most spirited team and student body I have
seen in many years.”

Despite losses to West Virginia, Kentucky and Rollins
in their first three clashes, the Generals still maintain that
morale and spirit.
All three oppon-
ents used fresh-
men, a_ practice
not allowed in the
Southern Confer-
ence.

Against the
heavily - favored
Mountaineers at
Charleston, West
Virginia, the Blue
opened its season
under Holstein by
outpassing the
Mountaineers but
finally succumb-
ing, 21-7.

Former Gover-
nor -Homer: 7:
Holt of West Virginia, a member of the Board of T'rus-
tees of the University, wrote Coach Holstein after that
first game commending the “spirited contest and the
most creditable showing’ of the Washington and Lee
team. “We might have won with better breaks,” wrote
Mr. Holt.

In their second test, against Kentucky at Lexington,
Kentucky, a team that had almost defeated Georgia and
its Frankie Sinkwich, the Generals threatened in the
opening period and were behind only 12-0 at the half. In-
Juries to ten men, including many of his key players,
forced Holstein to use many inexperienced players, and
the Wildcats made a field day of the second half, piling
up a 53-0 margin over the game but under-manned Gen-
erals.

Travel weary and suffering from injuries in the two
previous games, the Blue and White traveled by train to

Jack Hennemier

 

Orlando, Florida, to meet the Rollins College Tars for
their third engagement. Rollins, boasting one of the best
teams in the South, had not been scored on in three
previous contests, rolled over the Generals to the tune of
a 46-0 score.

“When it comes to winning games with injured men
at a possible cost of permanent injury to the players, I'd
rather lose all of our games,” Holstein said. The physical
well being of the men is of major importance, particularly
at this time when the nation needs the best of its man-
power, indicated Holstein.

When the Generals left for the Rollins game, they
were called distinct underdogs. The Florida outfit had
whipped both Presbyterian and Davidson by comfortable
margins, and the
900-mile trip in a
day coach wasn’t
just. whet = the
Doctor ordered.

In considering
the possible out-
come Ob. the six
games remaining
for the Generals,
the new mentor
has conceded the
Blue with a good
chance of winning
POUT “Ot these
games. The four
most-likely W.
and L. victims are
Hampden- Syd-
ney, and Virginia,
the only rivals who will appear on Wilson Field this fall,
and Davidson and Richmond. ,

Against Maryland and Virginia Tech, the odds are
more decidedly against a General triumph. ?

However, even three victories would make the 1942
team a success. In the past two campaigns, playing 19
games, the Blue has won only three contests.

Four seniors, three juniors and five sophomores have
seen most service in the first games. At ends, Senior
Wheater and “Pinky” Norman, a sophomore, have play-
ed most, Ailor and Rulevich, both seniors, have held
down the tackle posts; Fitzpatrick, a senior, DilLoreto, a
junior, and Michaux, a sophomore, have shared the guard
assignments, and Dyke Norman, the fifth first year var-
sity man, has been at center most of the time.

Nore: The Generals won over Hampden-Sydney,
20-13, a few days before we go to press,

Art Lewis

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Tribute to Dr. Tucker

Ew teachers, however important or far-reaching their

work may be, ever attain the recognition they ought to
have—if they gain any recognition at all. It was partly
for this reason that we were particularly pleased to read
in Virginius Dabney’s volume on the South, “Below the
Potomac, (Chap. VI, pp. 155-6), a tribute to Dr. Robert
H. Tucker, Dean of Washington and Lee, which, if less
than Dr. Tuckers deserves, is at least
some recognition of merit.

Mr. Dabney, nationally known editor
of the Richmond Times-Dispatch,
makes a survey of the new South in
this book, discussing its present prob-
lems and probable future, and he de-
votes a special chapter to Southern
education. One of his main points in
this chapter is that Southern institu-
tions are handicapped by a lack of
funds as compared to some of their
Northern neighbors ; but he shows that
these colleges manage to carry on ad-
mirably and that this is partly so be-
cause of the loyalty of men who would
rather stay in their own section than
accept a much higher emolument at
richer universities. Dr. Tucker is men-
tioned as an example of this sort of de-
votion along with Hudson Strode of
the University of Alabama and Robert
P. Brooks of the University of Georgia.

To quote Mr. Dabney:

“A third teacher of especial note . . . is Dr. Robert
H. Tucker of Washington and Lee. After studying in
Germany and at Wisconsin and Chicago, he entered the
teaching profession. Shortly thereafter he was recognized
as one of Virginia’s most progressive citizens, participat-
ing in many movements on behalf of more efficient gov-
ernment and a more enlightened attitude toward the un-
derprivileged. He was the first chairman of the Virginia
Industrial Commission, following the enactment of Vir-
ginia’s workmen’s compensation law in 1918 and first
chairman of the Virginia Commission on County Govern-
ment, in which capacities he influenced the thinking of the
state in important particulars. His quiet and levelheaded,
yet courageously liberal, approach to public questions has

 

Dean Robert H. Tucker

made his advice sought for decades by governors and
other public figures.

“It is such men as these who give the Southern col-
leges and universities their distinctive cachets, and their
strong leverage upon the youth of the South, to say noth-
ing of the many young men and women who come from
other sections to study there, despite the relative poverty
of most of the educational exchequers.
It is fortunate, indeed, that these in-
stitutions manage to hold a fair per-
centage of their most inspiring teach-
ers and most talented researchers and
scholars, in the face of the blandish-
ments and temptations from across
Mason and Dixon’s line. (G.S.J.)

 

WitiiAm B. Wispom, ’21, who had
built up a flourishing advertising bust-
ness in New Orleans, was commis-
sioned a captain in the Marine Corps
last July. He was prominent in civic
activities in his home city and was a
member of the board of the Lee ar-
chives of Washington and Lee. As a
Marine, he believes he will direct Re-
cruiting and Public Relations in Nash-
ville.

His brother, John Minor Wisdom,
'25, is stationed in Washington, D. C.,
as captain in the Army Air Force.

 

THE FOLLOWING brief tale should indicate to any
doubtful alumnus why the Alumni Office is in a constant
state of despair over the mail situation: The journey of
the letter described below is far from unusual these days.

Not to mention any names, a certain letter, through
nobody’s fault unless you can blame Circumstances, was
shuttled about as follows: From Charleston, South Caro-
lina, to Quonset Point, Rhode Island, to the Naval Air
Station, Norfolk, Virginia, to the Postmaster, New York
City; to Newfoundland and back to New York; to San
Francisco, to the Navy Department, Washington, D. C.;
to Lexington, Virginia, and at last to its final resting
place in Atlanta, Georgia.

[8 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Additions to List of Alumni in Service
As of October 12, 1942

Nore: This list of 479 alumni in service comprises
the second published addition to the list of Washington
and Lee men in service published in the May, 1942, Mag-
azine. Washington and Lee now has 1001 men listed in
the armed forces.

In comphance with the military and naval authorities,
we have refrained from giving information about service
men save their class and branch of service, and indicating
whether or not they are commissioned officers. However,
the Alumni Office is vitally interested in other pertinent
data, such as actual rank, station, permanent home ad-
dress, or other address from which mail will be for-
warded, special activities, type of service or training, etc.

It is our policey to keep as close a connection as pos-
sible with our alumni in this time of stress, and any in-
formation concerning alumni in service will be greatly
appreciated by this office.

In the listing below, certain symbols have been used
to conserve space. ‘hese symbols, and their meaning, are
as follows:

A, Army of the United States; AAF, Army Air
Force; N, United States Navy; NAC, Naval Air Corps;
MC, Marine Corps; CG, Coast Guard; MM, Merchant
Marine; RAF, Royal Air Force; FFA, Fleet Air Arm;
RCAF, Royal Canadian Air Force; RCEC, Royal Ca-
nadian Engineering Corps. An asterisk (*) following the
above symbols indicates an officer. Asterisks (*) to the
left of the name indicate the following: *—unofficially
reported missing; **—officially reported missing ; ***—
officially reported prisoner of war; *****—officially re-
ported killed or deceased.

Name and Class Branch of Service

Abrahams; Alexander Robert, Je.37... 8 N*
Adains. Rerwin Butler (4i cc a ee ee A
Ainsworth, bdward Robinsom. "3800 oa ae A
Aden, Fagen: Craver - 0 Ate ee ee ee N*
Adevigatis,, weveeciog Sitict, (42 N*
Aléxatider, Gears. Mi it Sa ee A*
ALGO GGT) fa A a A
Atiis,;  verete Orme, (39. ics. hk ee a AAF
Aqiaerman, Walligm Sydney 1r..302 5 eS AAF
Andersoa, ser Vaiiar oor ai ae AX
APO AGL A 4s eu ae eee alee A
Armentrout, William Howe 137 gas gic ne! aye eds A
Armsinone. ne Bere 421 ee ee: Ae
Ash Glentress Merrell: 40 oe eo RAF
Asherot, Hegjanun Franklins (41.0 ee N*
Bape, cron Suck): (200 A
Dakery Bobert Asibsca, a2 nce le N

Name and Class Branch of Service

Bai Willis Wanville? 40 ea eee eae ek N*
Dares Richard Agiderso Sb ee A
Dgouet, Garland: Hansbrovueh:, 400 a a AAF
Hateer: Morton Darrell: Tri 41 cls ee ee N*
Batter, Charles Bolt. 24 ier us. oe eee A*
Dariie, ena IT Agee vi Os iii ee es A
Batriws,. Wiliam: Grpert, 17° 42.603. ec. oe ee A
Dapsett, Kichard: Millet {430600 rote en ee AAF
Pathe, (r,s bora oriard, (34 ee a ee ae ee N*
Baueher, Dlatry Keating, (AZ 8 oe oe N
Beate, Poh William 739-0 ee A
Beale, rnest linwiod ie. sen hime ae A
Bean. Melton Randaipn 2 $oui ie sees ae alk ds AAF
Beeston, Witham Arthur, 39..0o Ae ake NAC*
mel NWwilltany 1Osenn, Davis. fr. (29.8 as N*
Belsen James Bdwin, lr. S430 a eee eee MC
Bennett; Dave. Jone, Jr, S55 se ee Nees Ee A*
PiShOps (IL | POW MESON, 21) ce ae tes cob N*
Bittenbender,: Horace:-W oodburh. 740-L, oe A
Bittuer Repent 2 las, 30-0. ai oa oe A
Bidwa De anid ole ae i ec ae eae MM*
Bidwe, WC bames Pipbith, 2320.8 aaa ay Sw ee A
Boas, Davideiall, = 302 oe A ack tka Veale A
Bodénhemn, eGwitt, Hobby aT es less erentetls aes; a
Boileau, Richard Rideway, 42.0. Sc es
Boleseau, mienare Wintel: 40. a ee N*
BOC Ar Oa A eck, oe a N*
Booth, Moris litany, Sis en os ea ee A
Bowles: (aries Mimore,. Ib 4 a ea A
braun, teoree: Adan ity AQ N*
nfeut, ;Ceorge Willian. Edie oes cea aie A*
ricken, -itving Buck 73a. oc Se eee ee a A
Broadus, joe Cartisle; 30 uk ae eae N*
Brooks. halip : Reed: 3002 oases ss chic cia ee eo NAC
Brower, Nee: Margit 42007 oo ee cack aon es N*
Brown, De “William. Moseley, (Ta wa A*
Bruinsima, “1 heodore: August. “41. ae eee N*
Buck, Artaur Hugene: jr. 39.30 oa ni MC*
ator, fb unoimias Carnes 4 a ie A
Dumedraver, James -Caul 274. a A
Bumeardner Rudepn, ih, “Ssc0 2 ee A*
Burks): Martin Parks lilo 3eeto asa io cash eee N*
Burner. James Calewell, Oi oi ia a a N
Burton, James Benwanim, (S42. sides ucshees ees N
*e*P Darton,  Kichaerd -Clabence, 42.0 ei ass AAF*
Byrd. Rittard Bevel, 45)... ancceesdilc tw Peis aac A
Cattery A aries So. Ze Ae ee a ee Re ee A*
Calaweu. it. Richard Mien. Saas. csc cas AAF*
Camneun;” Lawtom : Miller? Shs icjiccoks eairasin stn nctsescisus N*
Campbell, (reerge Bashy. 14.00 aie is ess eae: Ae
Campbell, Robert Fishburne, r. 42....00) a; SD celery: N*
Carey Tlatry Sans, 06 ois aoe ai A
arise tatiey.. Lewis. 42 ok ee N
Carpenter,  Devertons. 37) i Ai ile i Sy acs A
Ratter Charles, Greet clr. 42. AAF*
Dashes GATE 250 oe ani ieee A*
Rostra mesa 29 rs a ee AAF
Gasto,. Don Mottne ft sone i a ees NAC
Caste “ore Clayton fr 30k. cas ee es ee N*

[2 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Loapinat. tack (Gppdrith.: 26) siccccciti a. ha eis ey AAF*
rien ner (homas VWViOn, Soi te a sens N
lee ter tt re 8 ake ae AS
Clatk Gedree AdGlipnus. 2 27 sais ee A
Cigre, Thoems Aton 42 i ee N*
aes TOGA lan 46 a ee a ae MM
ital, Oscar Wham, fe 42 aN ee heise N*
Cheeks Thornton mitene@tr, OO). nce sisi A*
ements Richard Iomery. ir, 39 oa a AAF*
rendenine,  tlerbert: Campbell. G8ic. casa Sioie acs A*
Cocke: Charice Wilbie (30.0 a ee a eS A*
Coleman,  wWilttam Abbett; 06.08.00 Aa is A*
Conte: Marvin Key, 40) cco i oe ees oe A
Coprne, Aseoree Denam,” (2/415... c sibs oes in ee A*
Conrad. | Gh SO cgi eves occ eosin el oe AAF
Cock, fon. CHeties, (384.6 a NAC
pte e,: BAER Oh. osc addi se es AAF
Coatmourn,. Wittam Clatk: Te Leon ae a ee ee A*
Cex  earcid. Nelson. 40.05 ei een ke N*
oa, 1 notias IS) AZ ei ei ls ee A
tat, Ravimone Edgar (39... i. One. AAF
Dpge. FiAtry Alt bE, oii siisvc os bl ei A
ReeetOrG. FORM ZO. ri choice a ee AAF*
Crittenden, ‘Pnamids ljanriston, 942. 3c A
Crocwet, Michae. Puc. 40 ee MC*
Crossen, Davide Frederick < 32.2.6 ieskicti ama. AAF*
Comnimonam, sumes Prankine 41 0.05.. ae on as AAF
Cattino: Palwin ©otes wort 42. os. ee N
Panreison. Tiara CisCat. (30.5. oe isis wins Se N*

 

 

John Riley Ligon, ’43, has been commissioned an Ensign in
the Naval Reserve and awarded his Navy Wings. He was
trained at the Jacksonville Air Base and is now on active duty.

Name and Class Branch of Service

WOR Dare i 8 6 bee ines i A
Dart) alan: fer Je 20 kee ea AAF
DAVIS, ema Pr Ec... cintv etic fssssdes assoc A*
EPaANIS, TOOUGE MUG 1B SUG sic veces sccecseeisgeseeck cess unre A*
Day, Cieotee hie A ia Seen A
De ROpery, Pewrence Mien e320 aioe esicechicstiesseecees A
Delehanty; ton fmaael 4) eens AAF
Dy Bites oA atheny Badward [174d oe ok NAC
CCV ane uceliey Fiete Fy N*
Devine, Dr. Charles, joseph, 16051 32 oo ella. N*
Devine, Jolin Wena see flee) oes cckv event A*
DVO, Foun Wik es N
Dianiond, Solomon, 40.03. Cte ee a A
Piewene, Somer etre 46 er ee a A
Didiet: Ciaties Peale ae i as ais MC
Dy a a esses ee N*
Drea. arcs Finan 30 hen ccs, AAF*
S7Ge Oe, Tloward VVestey, 423i ie hd iciasnesh he N*
Peopceriiee Roenert Rossel “302 ee aa A*
ProtiatesOiy WH beet Teac ae ne ee A
Dorsey, Jonn Tilovyd. jen 42.0. eee Tae chek mics ic A
wet* Doulas Stanie, Alen, it. S03 ee AAF
Pinean, Rando Varsha 28.8 ek AAF*
Piiield,: adore (price (4200 ie FAA
Lwin, Christopher Claude Cobbs, “41.50.0650 4! AAF
goa, Paice fare 34 i ee ee A*
Pron, (Onn TiCkinson: 41 a A
ustin, Kenneth Gordon: GF s es NAC*
WeeGOt), Cine les 1 getines 99 ee Ae A
Beeline, Prancis: Wax 37 Ao aa N
EPspy. Rovert Byrd, 402... sdvuace lh bees tvesels bee oe ce N*
Paleou, (segtee WV tr 1 nk sn AAF
Marrar “George Sheiton, 26.5.0. cies Se es AAF
Parties Granvine-©ue ir. 400 i a an RCAF
Paul, Sion Avensis; 400 oi as ei ek NAC
Merete, WW atten) Gerda ge. ee a aan A
Pereuton. Faward Benet ga. aS ae A*
Pere. (tte Clarence, Ir Flonase N*
Picidg, “Woitliger Fe idson, Ir 30. oe a NAC*
eG ti te ey oa ak NAC*
Pies man, Alvi theodore, 44.0.6 feu N*
POarG Joes Cowin, 4e a ee N
Pibiy (otaay entry, 10. Al ee N*
Wer, NG 97 csc Cos A
Poster, Clarke Clayton, 4hicia0) os Gk ae ae AAF
Foster, tseorve Plarding. 440 ee ee N*
Pragkhin, jaies Montgomery, 35......00 25 ne ee a ee A
Mreeinan, Roland Soilace, 40. oa a Sirius A*
Puller, Chariton Vhonias?4250 i es N*
Gage, Robert Douglas 11), 42. 3 ke N
(saines, Francis Pendletod: Jt. 789) 4.5.,. co A*
(salt, avid Drown 416 a a Gin ict ieestts A
Sranoe, JOnN PRaees G0 ee ie N*
Crarci. Ramen is Ir 2). Ti ee ie N*
Gattow, Johm Wanroy, i 44 ees N*
Ciay yy iat 24 ee AAF*
(7eres, NiawGre Bate, 45 a a NAC
Cifen, Burr Wwards. e430 Dey a A
Gilbert, Wallis Van, 00 ak oii a A*
Goldenbers, Gordon Pavoe. 33 oo ie oe re A
Goldstein: Stanley Rober 43.460 ee. A
Goodin, John Davie. JO ae a At
Crap Pili yt seritet, S¥e te A*
Graham, Robert inary. 404 a ae acs NAC*
Granver, Tedwit Stewart, 41. See AAF
Gray Willatth tonal, 46 ee N
Greeniec: ome: Cumeron, 4 420 ae N*
Gresham: Drity ads ahi Acs hia ke A

[ 10 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class

Griffis, Sohases Buarhis GG oer ic buss acqevsspcepesuecss saises vce seen A
Griffiths. ene ie ee a a i ep A
Croner, ee a oa vs kei te AAF
Guthrie, “haries jatier, JTS ei las ee A
Guthrie, Water Russell 40 ny Soon ess seeespatsccass tin ares A*
Faas, Lew LaAvnian. G4 i a ee ae on
Fall, ibert Brnest,: otitis gegen aes AAF*
Hampton, Dri-Stanley Forrest, 30.02.57) ccaideersciieeys AAF*
Hardy, Paul: Patroldy yor is i A*
Margrave, Walter Wdiams: (0/7 2 eileen nes N*
Harlan; dwin. Hasson Webster, Jf. 455 6. ea A
++ Tlarwminetonh: Witla bib. Coiicaiesis ares erie N
Harris; JObn homage UG. kc al ei a ae
Harris, } eopiias 45 Pee ae Ae ae: A*
Hart, (Dee @tiwer- Fames. 25 ss ine oe a ick eas A*
FlasSel) Press 2 iy oe N*
Haw, George Edwin, Jr., 44.00.0000. is aan ee A
Hayes, Phos: Moore, 16.79) 3. oe aa N*
Haynes Prank Be tac aad ae te eG A*
Haynes“ Robert Alexander. 11) AS.) oe a. MC
Heatwote;, Marion’ Greve, “43-15 oie bei ccac ehes N*
Hector WV ilies Ditcwee 40. a. AAF*
Helditian: erome ittee, 8022 nia a us A
Hellinge: Jerome Gee; Ae a ee ee JA
Henorer, Roper raneis a a ee aa, A
Hent fete ee a ae N
Hernande = wines Cgrios. 4 es. N*
Herndon micvard Widdicton, (4h io ee a a A
Hiden, Maree) favle (410 a. AAF*
Hiei Ge ee A
Hilde@prea tirest Seeley ir 42 ae MC
Hiliteee eee A CPE, OBB ia ic ele A*
Hinton Weta tee 20 es ae oe ec ets A*
Hite ee i ea AAF
Hobsotm aries (ee. Fl Widow ives Shiai N*
Hol@e@ie aut LOR Oy ole so oi AAF
Howse 2ougiss Wayne. 9250 a ne Ae ce A
Howard, Fames Robert: 42-4, 400. ei ae ee eae A
Hufi Famee Bincharg 24 ies Se ae A*
Humphrey, tomes: Formas, 40a a AAF*
Hundley) lames Tieodote, 40)... vse indoe Joao N*
Hutter: Robert Fleming: 425 a ee NAC
Huntsberrs. Walter Anger Sick 4A ek cas A*
Hissey, boeice We a a N*
JaGGBS. aware Sas. oe er a a A
Jasper deenianin vane 42ac ae ee a N
Jeter? Phorace PHearie 342i aie iscsi sees else ee eG Sins A
JonWStoe taeHe Ray 425 ee ce ee N
Johnsten; J Onn W tam, 40 ee a aa ia AAF
Jones: Fronier: Daniel, ira ee N*
Jones; Tohn: Maran, lll. “S/i.38 0 tua ea ea A*
Jomes tonn Faiees 308 a ea ea N*
J oneal ae A
J owes Ver King te i ee es A*
Jones, Samue! Tipton tr, Bos ouch ae AAF*
Jones; WHlteat Cowie. 6265 ieee ee MC
JoyGe; Morton Trartison, 43.0.0..o ea e CG
J ueer. Reber Bele a hh ladies AAF
Kaezka, Baward Prancis, 38... 05.063, YU Au wie eee A
Kearns Georee- 2 ior, tr a2 ee N*
Keiley, Rickard“ Cowies.. 30.50. ane a as A
Keshemer ot erence 6 oa a ere AAF*
Kipling, Pia Piatra (42 an N
Kintera, thee rove, Ae acon iiatehieets hiadbesio sell NAC
Kite Wit) Dasent 36.3 a i a NAC*
Kaneeeury  Ropert Perey) os a iccoinitis once CG
Kier, peepee: foo Le ga eece ea aiee A*
Kopaioen fa wit 37 oi ee ae: AAF

Branch of Service

Name and Class Branch of Service

WOGOAIE: Sida 18 Sa es ee A
Pa veotts,. Prank: Linton. ir 4 a a ea N
Dateam Rindot (eee a i ees sce: N*
La Woipe, Victor Raetey BF asia oles dee ee A
Tawien; Jonn. Kivingion” 30.0.3 es A
dawrente,: Joun howard, 42.04 /ce ciao eae .N
dgawton, RODETe AMISOR, Sei iicikes eet ia ec N
eeaounil: Charles “Adrian: $8.0 %e..c ck eel ee N
BORG Ee JOTIL hgh races eek evas che hes 9 ele ses ecco eas MC*
Levin, farold, Agere cs SESE PI Sistei casas es N
devy, Tiarold Rochelle “42500 ea Seis ota
eS, eae) aarti Fa Ae hee ce ck ee N
icc, Charlies dwar Tyo Be icici ublacnc cd ie N*
Toone, Tir. Ferome Pillow. 26 cack N*
ioe, Witham Biacksner (20. ei ee a A*
Pystpader. A IDeri sl Gia ee ee ee A
VOUS THCPDCET CHIT oleic oc ee A
EVOnS: SIdNeV, So easiest aa A*
MactbBtvde, Mateolm flwuah; J7.; 720. ea N
MicCaoe, (Hares Dwient 20 ee AAF*
MeCanumish, Dovelas Willis) "43... ee a ne. NAC
NieCarael, Av if 729.3, be active nisi elendecon tocol N*
mceClire:cHuoh Neel 442 ee a ae Pee al eee ee N
NiGCotloni Willa 05 30.46 ae ay. AAF*
McCorkle, Tanmett Wallace, Jr, (26).0.0035. ua ca N*
Mchiroy, Tames. Its, Goi o nies cians wien ne end
McEwan, Oswaid: Beverley, °40= Livia wick ac bicoe A*

 

 

A. E. (Archie) Mathis, former W&L wrestling coach, is now

on active duty with the United States Navy. Mathis, mat coach

for seventeen years at W&L and mentor of 11 conference

championship teams, was assigned to the physical training
program at Lambert Field, St. Louis, Mo.

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name and Class Branch of Service

Meradden, Saniel tsivens. 4 abe oc. NAC*
M Cita, John Garvin: J t.5- 20 .ccis aise teraveres es Goa N*
Métwane, Baiph Melville. 20h ie eat ee eine eee N*
MeMullen. Glenients: Mo, Lisa... See ees AAF*
Mee Miurran Toewis ACHE, G6 ois. Boece Seto ee N*
Meweil, John: teeisOn, Oe i ie eats case OA
MeNew, Tlhugh Dama, "361 oss. icc ei ee N*
MGNIOR Davie Weeveyy 18. 4 saree cervsgestbtens as iceres ees A
Mietiity (ere See fe ON ee A
Machenzic, entity Want. ii Soe a N*
Mangan; -Jobn joseph, “42-1... he sisi aia N
Narshall: Watter Paskell (30.0 a ee leis N*
Martie: Fol Gtoree, Agios sna baccaean es, ee A
Mason, tlarry Coopet. 428 i atten eee N
Matthews. Joseph: Aubrey, <42.c. 555s eee inrecs dente cases N*
Mating. amticl Crawiond. 35. oe ee, N*
Mavocid: Parle Bo: (SU hk A ee N*
Maynard Pletcher o teeeralt, 30. a er N*
Mead. Wy. Carrol. Jos ee ae MC*
Wievler. lon Sauter "39. oo ihe lied een A
Pierce. 4 atic Daueherty.= 296.0506 CG
Weer Womes Hrrvery 09) oa aia Ah ie eee A*
Merrite: Christiane: Coe, (356s ag ieee sec eterna dae A
Merritt. Fenty 7 WOmas, 35 — Eigen. ice ca ses eass ee N*
Merritt Joni Ay as bP ab ey cae ee oe ees A
Midelbursg, -Cleries. Wilson, "390 nies ccd castecn iedeeseiveaaet N*
Maes Wald Seating) fos) y es as ers ee S dses N*
Mivirou. Roper Willem. “44. a a A
Milenauch,: Aust Cunningham, « olics cn lies bissceseeeeenn oe A
MOnrod, Water: Letoy, 42.5.0 Se ee ee A
RiGee: im i avin. SON ea oe Lascieae ee AAF
Meera weck: Alvin Fléerman, Jf, 30. alse ae A
Morgan, Alien, 2 2ncais. 0c: Spice eauccd ees NAC*
Riot eat, (te. S55 oie i wise scc ee os oes ts a ss A
Morison: sired: Milton, 38)... ss nie Secndeiseteceseapeee ees A
Moses: ‘Fiomias Wiliam, 89.2 oO orca digi eace N
Motiesheare Charlies Meawin, 41-1 ae N*
Moxley, Kenneth Douglas, ’41.......... Pe ts a te et Te AAF
Mittin, Dickson: Stanier, 9 3/iini iit kceciinacanens N*
Miiieser, “Woitett enty, Ite 232. i ie ee ee A
Miugesuch pAibert- So ristian, oe oes ccs tatandetssenestsyssees N
Neorett, Walder Fs 14s oc ac aay, A auiaeteeuan AAF
Nesbitt, Edwin Atlen: Mp eu Ss pee ca na ee A
Noel, Wilbur i icaid. AMO T Fi scot ade tes tisT ine oli a A*
Norfleet, Joseph Pugh; IGS as Laks Rawabi Gadi dace cL Ne Ne
Nunn, Ciimibre ea a AAF*
Cuero Josep Allens Pr AZ lin ec vie tuss eins carne AAF
Pardee. David fF Owers.. Ag ie eric: co ccks sha ieca vtec wvds AAF
Pavcon, Alexanter Asallatin, LAo is ae i icctioetes A*
Pégraian). hrederick Heller <3 lie tiled Seis A*
Pearson, John Bentley; “3921,. 350 ise isee ee es NAC*
Peery, Robert Camppell, 407 aie bonis ie ees N*
Peer. Robert Kay, Shen yt GAs digs A
Pe incon, Peres Wade 39. co ee ete ee A
Be OI I tose hg ory ons ea Re pees ons ac ch oun shniam ie ag
Pires, Aaa A 8 i ce a AAF*
ESRI OTON, VOU PR Og ioc ea ch i se N*
Pilowden.- 1 heodore Moeraddin, 937) oon ane. i
Tete FOR PLOY 20 cos as esses avs tae or cian N*
Pope, William Myles, ’27.......... Gist d isi antic Ra et aaa AAF*
Perier,” Willian wero n Oak he a ek es A*
Pore, Font (avi 20 fi ce ee RCAF
OWE Ral) by ee i gee oe A*
Preston, John White B.. y TE" Ae eee aad cg casas Dee aga AAF
Pride, Tarvey, o4,ccaandek Se re ee: AAF
Pyle, Charles. ¥.. CAG a Seiad es $e ADE
Quekemeyer, ro Baxter, “4a ona) beh eee eN
Raphael, Arnold Martin; *40..3.2.0.0..05.6.: Scien ake ie MC

Name and Class Branch of Service

eo ivicd ccts Gaaear eaten eee meee A
Ray WV tibia A dd son: OG 6555 css iceek cons scevecbageg oa itveesdevnaes peeves A*
TROCSUR ted AO. oo iivicdoscaseseersseneninics See eed A
Weeiper. ae ge seis Ga A
Pere. Treaty Alero 29 ia ci ssr csc paccreserscsseeces N*
WCTEGE TI 190 tol ila fe GN rossi spc ivs ss scdipssn eossvseaanseeee Ca A
Repprer;) pigney Neal C38 seri ccevisessh sess suede CG
Reynoids. Charis Fo | eee eigen ois es ana esvee eve A*
Reynold. (corse 1 ha0 ll. 3G eS ose ib ais Wee A
Reyucids. niner Pawar oe 20. ova N*
iett. bhaery. Neere Ire cise a cahis ssigassonebine A*
PRICE oe Cy att GUS eos ad asa od ines sp vee es N*
hice, Hotel An 4i Aas N
Rivers “Niagtinew. Poel: a 257 ee eb lise cacvides MC
PRIGere Vest As A*
Roberts bennett Prank, 22.0 8 ee NAC*
Rockwell, Paul Ayres: 712. <2 ee Re sisi as AAF*
BOEdiger Iteniy jeccrer, 1t. Gg b i. ahha: A
rowers, Milton War ee 17 cciivcc sn es ee i iswus caer AAF*
Rogers, Willian Manone, Ir; S6uce Se csedie. A*
Roose, dr. Lawrence Jacob; 232555. Geis AAF*
osen Carly © Penton 43.5.0 ea N
Hoth, Clarence Aibert Jt) 390 ee ata A
Rothert,« Willan. Prancis. 3/7) 3 2 N*
house, Parke Shepherd: Jr. 3766 oo a N*
oouse, Randotph Dashiell 39. ee ek N*
Busstom. Allen, (25-5. 6 ee a re te nae A*
Niupentone Willig) 21s... is aches wissen tice A*
Salinoer, James joseph, (29. 5c aca Teil aed scn webu ene ie
Sample, Staunton. Brevard “38. a sek ca pe A*
Sancstrom, ueo Richard. tis) 40. cu ace eal en A*
DaLer. otaniey Leomnid Az. ee ae ee AAF
waumders, Madison Ames. fr. Aline ce cc IN
Saunders,; William Francs, 940-1... ccs: iene N*
ecnmoecic, Dee John: Moore 17 tci ka sae: N*
seh wartz. Leese Kenuneih, $22. ee do i aes A
ote WN iia foun Ae a es ks N*
Gece srice, en 508 i yh a ay N*
pensetisey: (Oni PiGtunes wom,” Bare ails i eal. A
mente (lene Calvin 42 ee N*
perapmine, | nip jerome. [re "3400 es oe N*
Saw, Poowat Moorea (OF a a cc A
Sheppard, De William Bostwick: Jr... ’31icc38.. Beet A*
whields, Jarves Skidmore, [t.,.'40. ico cuca eee NAC
wrropshire. Cameron hh  ( 240 ol a aid es AAF*
Sie ee Ot We, PA eo ius dis ee es A*
Skate lyre Grint 4 ee i a AAF
Oita Ae OR 0. ee ee A*
miniten, (hares. Cornelius: (S56 oe es eek es N*
init, «vee dAlewortn Fr 42 N*
DH sale Pele Stiai) Ae er AAF
pinite, Lucien Lene: lt, Ses. eek ae es A
Bie TOD NOB 20 A*
Sit Walp arate aves. 8). a ae N*
init, ye Aer ecole, It eli ee. an AAF*
rt VVIDUL. oid, 4s, eer, ks i A
Snidow; John Chapumn, ir 40-4 le eae: A
Snyder fiien -hegias, Abed a ee a N*
Soydet, [oe Source. Ji 34. a a a as NAC*
mocha. Hrank: Aredericn, 4)...0 6 a ee AAF
Somerville, A brant povuelas, “08.2.0 ee ee is A*
moninrer, “THOmass Vy at 4 ed i ee os eas AAF
parks, Jaies bene. Ofelia i sca N*
Shinde, KRitard: Bucwner Dil ae So N*
Stachiie, Mery wayne tieiwit r., 30.06 os N*
patie BOG Face lo ee ee ee oer ge ee A*
Stepnens, LeRoy (ames; 4402 oe ea MC
Stet, Willams Seeman 69. a i ee A

[ 12 |

———

Name and Class Branch of Service

EtevecnSOMy INtley FOS be rates oi ttn kgs ner esto eer eee A
REV CS AN MG de BOL inane Mise Sooo enn AAF*
Stribling, Shares Riddte, ft) Ae ected iid be A*
Gruart, Sagres ee ee ee ee pn MC
Stiart, VVeEtee MAOOPe) AO. 62s. asses Giese A*
Stull, Cimriee Wt a 98 boise cs vieeessci ies ots ae A
Barllivagere ee ee as eens AAF*
Sweeney; demas Shirley 450. eer ie ible sks ie onan N*
CwitZer, tan A eneine et 29606 ei Sic A*
GwitZ@b, on: JON elt, eri ckie ln Glas os ea ee ee. A*
Tabb, James Wy anaee, 80 ia AAF
Tallicheét Rene Ted i678 iki ccd ick idesstohegyss Gi iidadshodesoassuces A*
Tay lors) aie Pag GO ao ee eae MC*
Tay lot, Enowtias eameey, Age. 2600, saciondccrccctsscdoesenspeeemiots MC*
Temple, OORT fete oe a A
Tenrnatih: Phones Neson, 39.0.0 eee oe, AAF*
Thomas. ate Seip ely (he. ee A
Thompson; Alexander Camppell: 34. on oc clea, A
Thotitpson, onan: Carter 37.5... as A*
Tolley Charles Daniel "39s i a ae CG
T onsimmeure, edward (hares, roe 82k ne CG
Towilk2 pO: ets Goes ccrebek bel eh A N*
Tucker everett ity ai sense ea esas ess -AAF
Tucker sonn renee, 66 10 i ie in hae ies A*
Turner, Ges Ce 0 ee A
Turner men © a, a ak arama A
Turpin eos PP een) Pa oe cactus N*
Ty rtel i ee ae CG*
TysOry ee Parker 400 ee CG
“ Urniey eae Ve eat 27 in ce da ke A
V anidaiepe ee alee, Ot ne N*
Varite, eee att 8 mai a NAC
V ante NS a a ea MM
Van Zanes Morgan, 35.5 ue eee ea A
V eechy fame 7 exandes, 2... ee N*
Vickers ried Neonteoniery, 32a a ee N*
Vins@h Beene. 36. co a AAF*
Wagner, Atred. Slauphter 30 a ee a ee N*
Wales: lawrence Butter 1860 a eae es N*
Ward; Samuel Mortimer 11d, 34.8 i ees a N
Watson, Willias: Slate fy 20 as N*
Watts. Vickers Bomtn 24 te lee A
Webster, Wylie Leonidas, (12... co culccousekaieesbcisies oe
Weed; Herbert 31 orrison, (42s i0 ic bone. N*
Wersel, BMoper: frags 42)... A
Wiarton. dr: joseon Butieson. “$3... ea N*
WRHitaker Raymond pe ourcy,. 42503 coc cde A
White, (osha Waters 18°69. 2 Ge es N*
Wie:  onert Miitcue) Ph 3G 2 a AY
W iene We WOR en ei nc ao A*
Wickerstainy Rev, Raymond Gillis (232.0) ae cs, N*
Wilour; Wildes, Cuttino: Jt 537 cio Ch bance, A
Wing MOMS Ay 2s i eth se ve iS A
Wiles, toenest, 36. ee N*
Weise Adria oe ore AAF*
Wahanison.- tack Alga 30. oi ca hie ae ae. N*
Wile: Aremive Mutat Tt 36.2... eile N*
Wiuson, Beslan Herriace: 394 fee AAF
Wisdom, Lana: Vigor (25.23 ee AAF*
Wisdotns Vy iiiam Bet 2 ee a MC*
Wittens Vittoe Prernert, Oe 2 ee N*
Wohord. Ahen Harts, 33.200 ia. Biases Re eee AAF*
Woldrd, Paat-bHantog,1r 732. ba oa ee MC*
Woedrum, Cittton Alexander: Jr. 33-bio c e MC*
Weeds; Frente tlarner it 40 ee eh N*
Wosidtidoe Carl Paice, (3500. a N*
Wodltenden, (seerce Arthur 420 ee ee A
Wieht: Gres Catvin 37 ee ae AAF*

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name and Class Branch of Service

Ay aolit, “Gries. Bawerd- 26 a ee es A
Atirt, JOM VVeglOv, IP. oo. i ee N*
AV right. Walia Woodrow, 4455 ok er ee A
Waticey. Wie. Oy Tia A*
Yeomans, Tioya Kien (42. a ee Ce N*
POneera an, VIGnCin ee. he Ane A*
Camere, Fatih boner’. ae. 3 ik en le AAF
1001 W. and L. Men in Service

te Or tre ited tates Ce 419
Pri ie Ore cn i ee 184
Fined states Nave) Guo ee 272
Pavel ce Ceti A ee ee ee 54
De: Marine OFS eg eae SY
Oe oes Rife ee ee 15

Ota! Alamein Arnis: 3 = 1001

 

Wright, ‘13, inImportant Office
(Continued from page 5)

president of the Bank of Essex, and he is president of

the Northern Neck Bar Association.

Mr. Wright is a son of the late Judge T. R. B.
Wright, of the Twelfth Judicial Circuit. His wife was the
former Marga-
ret Della Pres-
ton, of Lewis-
burg, West Vir-
ginia. He was
born in the old
family home on
the Rappahan-
nock Kivesr.
which now is the
main building of
St. Margaret’s
School for Girls
at Lappahan-
nock.

Although his
legislative duties
and the practice

 

of his profession
as a lawyer have
kept him busy,
he has found
many opportunt-
ties to return to
W. andl. and
chat with his old
friends.

 

Clifford B. Curtis, °41-Law, is now an

Ensign in the United States Naval Air

Corps Reserve. He was awarded his

Navy wings at Pensacola, and is now on

active duty at Port of Spain, Trinidad.

(His address in Port of Spain is 11
Pomme Rose Avenue).

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

George FE. Haw, ‘04, Elected
President of Virginia Bar

CLASSMATES and contemporaries of George E. Haw,
04, who remember him as half-back on the famous team
of 1902 and a member of T. N. E., Sigma, and Phi Kappa
Psi, will be pleased to hear that at a meeting of the Vir-
ginia State Bar Association in August, 1942, Mr. Haw
was elected the Association’s president.

After receiving his law degree in 1904, Mr. Haw went
into practice with his father, and this partnership con-
tinued until the latter’s death in 1930. Since 1918 Mr.
Haw has resided and practiced in Richmond, but he still
maintains his contacts with his home county of Hanover,
of which he is still a voting resident. He was married in
1918 and has one son who is now stationed at Camp Lee,
Virginia.

Mr. Haw is the third Washington and Lee president
of the Bar Association in the past three years, Kennon
Whittle, ’14, having been a predecessor two years ago.

 

Everetr O. Amis, 38, left Washington and Lee in
1937 and during a tour of Europe that summer obtained
an assistant professorship in English at the College de
Garcons in Castlenaudary, France, where he taught until
the autumn of 1938. Forced to leave France during the
Sudeten crisis, he returned to the United States and took
a job as reporter with the Memphis Commercial A p peal.
He was called into the service in F ebruary, and, after
basic training at Keesler Field, was made Corporal with
special duty in the Public Relations office.

 

W. ArtHuR BeEeETon, 39, received his commission
and wings at the Naval Air School in Pensacola in 1940.
He then had active duty with operating units of the
Atlantic Fleet, which took him to different places all the
way from Canada to South America. In May, 1941, he
was made District Flight Supervisor with Civilian Pilot
Training, Civil Aeronautics Administration, Department
of Commerce. In April, 1942, he was promoted to Air-
ways Inspector (Flight), Second Region, Atlanta.

 

PauL Mutpoon, ’41, is an assistant flight commander.
He has been a pilot and instructor since June, 1941, and
was promoted to a first lieutenancy last February.

 

CLAUDE SAUNDERS HowELL, ’32, was drowned while

fishing in the Nansemond River, in Virginia, in the sum-
mer of 1942.

21 Alumni Training at Harvard

WALTER GuTurie, '41, (now 2nd Lieutenant, QMC)
reported on August 14th that there were then twenty-one
Washington and Lee alumni studying in the various
service training schools at Harvard.

To quote his letter:

()-2:) Charlies’ Willams 938)-is now ah- in-
structor at the Naval Supply Corps School here at the
Harvard Business School, and Ensign Tom Bradley, ’41,
is an instructor in the Naval Indoctrination School which
is located at Harvard University.

“In the Quartermaster ROTC course, in which I am
an instructor, we have Cadets Derrell Dickens, ’40, S. L.
Kopald, °43, Henry Roediger, ’42, Jerry Hellings, ’43,
T. C. Buford, ’41, and Ted Bruinsma, ’40. The latter has
recently received his commission as ensign in Naval
Ordnance. Allen Snyder, ’39, has alsé received a com-
mission in Naval Ordnance, effective on his graduation
here in February.

“Ensign Alvin Fleischman, ’41, is now a student in
the Supply Corps School here, as is Ensign Murat Willis.
Also students in the Harvard Business School but not
members of either armed service are Sydney Lewis, Jack
Barrie, Bob Wersel, and Horace Jeter. These men are
in what is known as the Industrial Administrator Course,
leading to a professional degree and in all probability will
work in a wartime manufacturing plant. Ensign Morton
Barker, ’41, was recently in this group but received his
naval commission and went to active duty.

“In the Naval Indoctrination School, studying under
Tom Bradley, are the following ensigns: Bob Epsy, ’40,
Jim Hernandez, Ted Hundley, 40, Hank Woods, ’42,
and Arch Turpin, ’39.

“This adds up to a total of twenty-one and is a pretty
substantial showing of our men here at Harvard. How-
ever, the school is so big that we rarely see much of each
other.”

 

JOsEPH Appison BILLinGsLky, Jr., ’40, was on his
way to the American Embassy in Tokyo (of all places!)
in the late fall of 1941. On November 26th he had arrived
in Shanghai, China, and he was held there subsequently
until an exchange of prisoners was effected recently in
Portuguese East Africa. Right after the exchange he
was sent to Capetown, South Africa.

 

OLDHAM CLARKE, ’28, is a member of a newly
formed law partnership, under the firm name of Allen,
McElwain, Dinning and Clarke, with offices in the Ken-
tuck Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

Po

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

1889

JosEpH TuRPIN DRAKE, prominent attorney of Port
Gibson, Mississippi, died at his home there on June 28th
after a long period of failing health.

After receiving his law degree here, he went to Port
Gibson and was admitted to the Mississippi bar in 1890,
at the age of twenty. He joined his father in practice and
later became representative of the Yazoo and Mississippi
Valley and [linois Central Railroads in Port Gibson. He
was for some time city attorney and for ten years mayor
of his home town. A director of the Port Gibson Bank,
he served also for a number of years as its. vice-presi-
dent.

He was an officer in the Methodist Church for half
a century and taught in the Sunday School a similar
length of time, resigning as teacher of the men’s Bible
class a year ago because of failing health. He also served
as church treasurer for about thirty years. His charities
were far-reaching, though he never allowed his closest
friends to know of the many gifts he made.

He is survived by his wife, three children, four sisters
and one brother.

1914

Harotp M. Cotiins died in Washington on Sep-
tember 24th. He had been on duty in the Division of
American Republics of the State Department.

Irom 1917-1919 he served in the United States Army,
reaching the rank of first lieutenant, cavalry, overseas.
Returning to the United States, he graduated from the
Columbia School of Journalism and later was a high
school principal. Mr. Collins entered the Foreign Service
in 1921 and served successively as vice-consul at Dublin,
and consul at Nantes, Ensenada, Riviére du Loup, Ed-
monton, and Winnipeg. In 1936 he was made secretary of
the legation at San José, Costa Rica. T'wo years later he
was consul at Tampico. He was assigned to the State De-
partment early this year.

He leaves a widow and a son, Lewis Preston Collins.

 

Former Professor Dies

Dr. Appison Hocus, who taught Latin and Greek
here for forty years, died on August 9th in Washington,
D. C., where he had gone to live after his retirement in
1920. He was a graduate of Hampden-Sydney and had
taught there as well as at the University of Virginia and
the University of Mississippi. His last years were de-
voted chiefly to church work. At the time of his death, he
was 93 years old.

 

Service Casualties

TECHNICAL SERGEANT STANLEY ALLEN DOUGLAS,
Jr., 39, was killed in action on June 11th, while acting as
radio operator on a B-23 Liberator Army bomber which
was shot down by shrapnel off Alaska.

Al was here only two years, but he had many friends,
both in his fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, and outside it.

To them, as well as to the rest of us, his death will bring

the war nearer and make its import even graver. It is a
long step from a swing tune with the Southern Col-
legians Orchestra, of which he was a member, to a sol-
dier’s death in action over the Aleutian Islands.

After leaving here, Douglas attended New York Uni-
versity for a while and was close to the attainment of a
degree when he volunteered for the air force. He was
also working for an insurance firm at this time.

He was trained at Scott Field, Missouri, and West
Palm Beach. He saw some service in the Atlantic Patrol,
operating a device for the detection of submarines. He
was then ordered to Alaska on a secret mission.

He was twenty-five years old at the time of his death.

LIEUTENANT JACK ARNOLD REVELLE StTEWart, ’39,
U. 5. Army Air Corps, was killed in a plane crash at
Tampa, Florida, on September 18th. He had just finished
training at Spence Field, Moultrie, Georgia. He had also
been stationed in Washington with the Staff.

Classmates and friends will remember Jock well as
prominent on this campus, and a member of Phi Beta
Kappa.

He was buried in Arlington Cemetery.

LIEUTENANT RICHARD CLARENCE Burton, ’42, Army
Air Force, was killed in a plane crash on September 13,
when the dive bomber he was piloting crashed in Beau-
fort River near Parris Island, South Carolina. He had
enlisted in the Air Force on December 17, 1941, and re-
ceived his wings at Kelly Field advanced flying school
in August. 7

 

At a special ceremony in honor of Constitution Day
last September 17th, representatives of Washington and
Lee were selected along with the Art Institute of Chicago
to sponsor the laying of wreathes on Washington’s stat-
ute in Grant Park. Other colleges represented at the
ceremony, which featured the sewing of one star on a
flag which will be sent to the forty-seven other states
for a similar ceremony, were Hamilton and Columbia,
honoring Alexander Hamilton.

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Weddings

OuR HEARTEST congratulations to the happy couples
in recent weddings:

1924

EpwArp H. Howarp to Miss Jean Schiver McLaugh-
lin in Baltimore, Maryland, on July 25, 1942.

1927

JoHN Preston Moore to Miss Ann Dart Lincoln on
September 18th in Charleston, South Carolina.

1929

Major Ropert W. PHarr,- USA, to . Miss. Anita
Falls on June 16, 1942.

1930

CAPTAIN STANLEY Forrest Hampton, Medical
Corps, USMC, to Miss Ahden Brantley Knight on
March 26th in St. Louis, Missouri. Captain and Mrs.
Hampton were to be at home at 1551 West Mulberry,
San Antonio, ‘Texas.

195>

ENSIGN FREDERICK DE RossEtT Stronc, USNR, to
Miss Elsie de Wolfe Angell in Cambridge, Massachus-
etts, on June 20, 1942.

ENSIGN SAMUEL CRAWwFoRD Matrox, USNR, to
Miss Jean Fleming in Louisburg, North Carolina, on

September 5, 1942.
1938

Mr. GEorcE EpwArp SULLIVAN to Miss Anna Quinn
Davis in Schenectady, New York, on June 27, 1942.

1940

PrivaTE Lko REINARTZ, JR., to Mary Gardiner in
Middletown, Ohio, on June 12, 1942.

ENSIGN Ropert CocHran Hosson, USNR, to Miss
Betty Crews in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on August 4,
1942.

1941

ENsIGN Wittiam Licutroot HEARTWELL, Jr,
USNR, to Miss Lucille Dorgan in Biloxi, Mississippi,
on July 11, 1942. The couple will be at home at 8208 Mc-
Cloy Road, Oakdale Farms, Norfolk, Virginia.

Mr. Water WILKINS to Miss Bobbie Ann Sanborn
in Goldsboro, North Carolina, on August 5, 1941.

ENsIGN Henry BAXTER QUEKEMEYER, USNR, to
Miss Mary Alice Morgan in Roanoke, Virginia, on
August 1, 1942.

LIEUTENANT WILLIAM CAREY BRECKINRIDGE, U. S.
Army Air Corps to Miss Charlotte Mason Luke in M1i-
ami, Florida.

ENSIGN HAMILTON PHILLIPS Fox, USNR, to Miss
Evelyn Louise Jefferson on August 6th.

1942
EnsicGn Ropert H. Corretp, USNR, to Miss Vir-
ginia Hahn on June 6th.
LIEUTENANT L. J. BrapForp, USA, to Miss Ojuida
Robinson on September 5th.

Ensign RicHarp BucKNER SPINDLE, III, USNR,
to Miss Katherine Anderson on September 19th.

1943
ENSIGN JOHN R. Licon, USNR, to Miss Myra Jane
Norman in Jacksonvell, Florida, on August 2, 1942. The
couple are at home at 2987 Collier Street, Jacksonville,
Florida.
1944
JAMES E. STEWART to Miss Estelle Brown in Las
Vegas, Nevada.

 

New Arrivals
1929
Mr. AND Mrs. ALLEN B. Morcan, a son, Allen Ben-

ners Morgan, Jr., born July 18, 1942, at the Methodist
Hospital, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

1931

Dr. AND Mrs. J. HANsForp THOMAS, JR., a daughter,
Gale McCormick Thomas, on May 21, 1942.

1937

Mr. AND Mrs. CHARLES R. SKINNER, a daughter.

1939

ENSIGN AND Mrs. W. ArtHurR BEETON, a daughter,
Barbara Lee on December 11, 1941, in the Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Hospital, Lexington, Virginia.

1941 |
Mr. ano Mrs. PEpRo ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ, a son,
Peter Anthony, on August 24, 1942, in Lares, Puerto
Rico.

AE LO |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1881

Jutie W. Parks has
visited the campus only
once since leaving school
but his affections are still
warm for the University
and his classmates. He is
living in Loch Lomond,
Louisiana.

1887

W. T. ARMSTRONG is

tion, though.

 

In the past we have tried to include in the Class
Notes some mention of every man from whom a
class letter was received. Now that it has become
necessary to reduce the number of pages in the
magazine, we are eliminating the names of men
from whom no new information was received.
Since the information may be a year old, the ad-
dresses have probably changed anyway. The names
left out are not forgotten. We'd like more informa-

De: JAMES: A. Mee
CLURE, minister of the
First Presbyterian church,
ot. Petersbure, Florida.
writing on June 4 states
Bs.

"40, was commissioned an

that dis son. bom:

ensign in the Navy, volun-
teeringo: (Or sea: dupe:
John, A.B. 728, who has
been practicing medicine

 

for nine years at Welsh,

 

senior member of the law
firm of Armstrong, Cranford, and Bedford,
American National Insurance Building, Galveston, Texas.

Baker,

1888

GREENLEE D. LETCHER has had a long illness from
which, we are happy to say, he has now recovered.

1898

Ernest W. Ripy’s company, Ripy Brothers, Distil-
lers, is making alcohol for the government.

W. Ross McCain has been living in Hartford, Con-
necticut, since 1919 as an officer of the Aetna Insurance
Company, having come to the Home Office as Assistant
Secretary. Since then he has been promoted until now he
is president of the group, comprising six companies—two
casualty and four fire companies. He is married and has
two children—a girl who graduated in 1940
from Vassar, and a son who graduated this
year from Deerfield Academy.

1899

Conc ARTHUR, SL. Spier. who: is. an
alumnus of both Virginia Military Institute
and Washington and Lee, and loyal to both
institutions, has been living in Florida since
his retirement several “years ago"; He and
his family have moved to Lexington, where “AS I
he will make his home. His father, Col.

Scott Shipp, was superintendent of V.M.LI.

“i sl ii
rm wlll ol

for fifty years.

    
   

eh

Louisiana, has volunteer-
ed for medical service and will be commissioned a first
lieutenant; Jim, A.B. ’34, and LL.B. ’37, is in the Navy.

1900

J. Ran Tucker, State Planters Bank Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia, has a son in the armed forces as a first
lieutenant in the tank corps.

1902

Dr. W. T. Extis is chief surgeon to the Stetson Hos-
pital, the Doctors Hospital, and division surgeon in the
Department of Public Safety of Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. His offices are in the Hardt Building, Philadelphia.

Dr. WitttAM ALLAN, after practicing medicine for
thirty-five years, says he has quit peddling pills and has
taken a job as professor of medical genetics in the new
Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Winston-Salem,
North Carolina. This occupation has led
him into statewide surveys of hereditary
diseases, so that he beats up and down the
road like a traveling salemsan. He gets
back to the campus occasionally and says
he thinks Washington and Lee is in better
shape than he ever saw it.

ELBERT W. BoocuHer, after
seven

twenty-

years’ residence in Merchantville,
New Jersey, has sold his house there and
moved to Moorestown, New Jersey, an old

I : il’? Quaker community about four miles east
et m 01 his former home. His older son is a

ah
Ze sergeant at Fort Dix, New Jersey, and the

rer ‘" .

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

younger has sent in his questionnaire. Mr. Boogher 1s
president of the Philadelphia alumni group.

Dr. J. Morrtson Hucrurson, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, and therefore in a position to
know, says: “There have been few times, if any, in my
recollection when our Alma Mater was more in need of
support than at present.” His son completed his sopho-
more year at Washington and Lee in May.

1903

Witiiam J. (“Bitty”) TuRNER has been with the
Braden Copper Company for the past thirty-three years,

civic, church, and defense jobs that our limited space
makes it impossible to print them all. We wish to nomin-
ate him as Public Spirited Citizen No. 1 of Parkersburg,
West Virginia.

1907

Vincent M. MILEs after a two year term with the
Social Security Act organization, was with the Depart-
ment of Justice for some time, and then became solicitor
of the Post Office Department.

G. W. KELLER is an oil and gas operator, with de-
velopment work mostly confined to the fields of southern
West Virginia and eastern Kentucky. He is general man-

   
 
   

with the exception of a couple of years Wi, Y ager of the Huntington-Oklahoma Oil
in the United States Army during the Gen, Z Company and the Midway Gas Com-
first World War, and for the past twelve LEX e pany with offices located in the First
years has been general manager of the one : Huntington National Bank Building,
copipany. He says: We are now; of 6h \ Huntington, West Virginia. His son,
course, operating at maximum capacity, ey =: George Simms Keller, is a student at

producing copper for the war effort, =
with personnel of employees of over
9,000 men, and all very busy.” He-1s
married and has two sons, the elder of
whom has just graduated from Harvard,
and is a volunteer in the United States
Navy. His second son is still at Phillips
Exeter Academy.

SAMUEL McP. GLascow, pastor of
the Independent Presbyterian Church, of Savannah,
Georgia, has turned over his collection of Robert E. Lee
pictures—around one hundred and fifty different pic-
tures—to the University to be displayed in the Robert
FE. Lee Memorial Room in the library. This is a most
valuable and interesting collection.

1905

Joun West Appison writes a delightful letter to his
class agent, so filled with classic allusions and apt quota-
tions that we are tempted to turn it over to the English
Department as “Exhibit A’’ of what the well-educated
young college man should know.

1906

C. A. Duntap is an engineer on the A.T. & S.F.R.R.
He says they have twenty crews working where six do
the work in normal times. He is in one of the great wheat
growing counties, and the wheat is the best he has seen
in many years. His home is in Wellington, Kansas.

CLAuDE P. Licu’, besides serving as Prosecuting At-
torney for Wood County, West Virginia, has so many

  
  

Washington and Lee.

W. . ].. DUNN; president, of the
Dunn Construction Company of Bir-
mingham, Alabama, writes that since
1940 his company has given up all other
work for war construction. They have

‘\ finished two jobs for the Army—the
=" "Fort McClellan Tent Camp, and the
Anniston Ordnance Depot, and were
starting work on a Naval Aviation Base. His oldest son,
W.R. J., Jr., 40, is working with him, and the younger,
Claude, was at the time of writing in camp on the West
Coast.

Dr. W. B. NEWELL is connected with the Indepen-
dence Hospital, Enid, Oklahoma. He has recently had a
rather severe illness following an attack of “flu” from
which he is recovering rapidly. He has five children, all
of whom are married except one.

1908

ABE SOMERVILLE, Capt. F.A. CASC, is in charge of
recruiting and induction at Camp Croft, North Carolina.
He says; “My heart is as good as it was in 1906 or 1908.
My feet still like to dance as much, but they do not move
quite as fast as they did.’ His son is now a first mate in
the U.S. Merchant Marine, and his daughter has just
graduated from the Delta State Teachers College of
Cleveland, Mississippi.

JouHn W. PorTER is practicing law in Muskogee,
Oklahoma. He is married and has four sons; the oldest
is an inspector for the government on an army canton-

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—_—_

ment being built near his home, the second a captain in
the Army Air Corps, the third an ensign in the Navy Air
Corps, and the fourth expecting to go into air training
as soon as he 1s old enough.

Ray RosBINnson is an apple grower on “Apple Pie
Ridge,” Winchester, Virginia. He also has an apple by-
products company. He was married in 1911 and has two
boys of draft age, one of them already in the Army, and,
by the way, he is also a granddad.

Roscok B. STEPHENSON has been practicing law in

his home town, Covington, Virginia, since leaving college.
He has three children, two girls and a boy, all of whom
are in college; the boy at Washington

and Lee: Fie says in his. letter to his _ Tg Vin h
‘ 4

class agent: “In closing, I want to ex-
tend my affectionate greetings to each
member of our class. Our association
as members of the law class was so
intimate and cordial that the revival of
those memories stirs a depth of feeling
which time cannot allay. So let me say,

God bless each of you.”

LIEUTENANT CoLoNEL Lewis C.
Gorpon, C.E., was assigned to duty on
December 1, 1941, at Michigan College
of Mining and Technology, Military De-
partment, Houghton, Michigan, as Professor of Ma
Science and Tactics.

ABRAM P. STAPLES, at the last meeting of the Na-
tional Association of Attorneys General, was elected
president of the association. He is attorney general of
the state of Virginia.

1909

Stuart CHEVALIER is making his home in California
where his law firm of Miller, Chevalier, Peeler and Wil-
son has an office, in addition to offices in Washington,
New York, and Chicago. Mrs. Chevalier has recently
published a very interesting novel, Drivin?’ Women. Her
book 1s particularly interesting to Southerners as it deals
with the tobacco industry and the problems of the South-
ern farmer, in which both Mr. and Mrs. Chevalier have
long been interested, both as observers and as amateur
farmers.

1910

Larry WILsoN has been in the automobile business
in Greensboro, North Carolina, since 1925. He married
Jane Gilkeson, one of the Washington and Lee belles.
They have three sons. All have finished at Washington

 

E
1h y= =
Tal ha

and Lee and are now working for Uncle Sam. Larry,
Jeu 37, is in the Pield Artillery; Pill, ’3/,1s. Assistant
Engineer with TVA; Ben, ’39, is in the Army.

Bronson LL. Woop is a Presbyterian minister at Cal-
laway, Virginia. He is married and has four children. In
his letter to his class agent, Bill Streit, he says:

“Yes, all of those names, and yours too, call up a
pleasant past, stirring very many memories. That Vir-
ginia game. Most of the student body was waiting at
Western Union, up on Main Street for the score. When
the final wire came in, there was a solid, but not silent,
move to the campus. At the south entrance they met
Sissy Stevens who did not believe in in-
tercollegiate athletics, and emphasized
his convictions with test problems that
fell heavily on the fall football schedule,
and sprung up again in the spring when
baseball season had opened. That Vir-
ginia game demonstration commandeer-

WYN
A SY

ed him for a speech, and he was game.
Mounting on the terrace for a rostrum,
he declared, ‘I’d rather you would eat
than be eaten; I had rather you would
beat than be beaten.’ Which was good
enough for him, and he was allowed to
go his way without further penalizing.
I ua there was never any other game that stirred as
much enthusiasm.

“Johnny Izard, besides being a star quarterback, was
a shark ‘in his classes. There was a legend that Dr.
‘Slouch’ Howerton who was a freshman in the faculty,
graded his first philosophy papers up, passing the lowest
man, and that when he got to Johnny Izard he gave him
Loo:

ALBERT McCown, M.D., has been serving since Sep-
tember 1, 1941, as medical director of the American Red
Cross, National Headquarters, American Red Cross,
Washington, D. C.

H. A. (“Tussy’”) DErr is president of Vanguard
Paints and Finishes, Inc., Marietta, Ohio. They are
furnishing paints and finishes for a wide variety of uses
in connection with the war program, ranging from small
accessories for airplanes to ships, including the complete
paint requirements for a large number of Mine Planting
ships for the Coastal Defenses, and four Submarine Net
Tenders for the Navy.

CHARLES J. KLLIson is teaching at Fishburne Mili-
tary Academy in Waynesboro. He says: “Since the old

[19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

days, I have done a little bit of everything. I fought
through one war without firing a gun, have sold invest-
ments and insurance, built roads, started a history of
Virginia, served as American vice-consul at Newcastle-
on-Tyne, England, advised CCC camps in education,
taught first aid for the Red Cross and taught English at
West Virginia, Virginia and Alabama (Montgomery). I
am still an old bachelor and still suffer from asthma and
the lack of money. However, a well made ginrickey and
a pretty girl distract me no end.”

JAMES MckKrim BE Lt is rounding out his 32nd year
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He is with the Rio de Janeiro
Tramway, Light and Power Company,
Ltd., running this public utility enter- a
prise in Rio and adjacent territory. His
son is a junior lieutenant in the Civil Engi-
neering Corps of the Navy, and his daugh-
ter keeps occupied with various war-in-
duced activities at the American Embassy
in Rio.

    

 

1912

Byron L. BALLARD is a member of the
law firm of Shields, Ballard, Jennings and
Taber, lawyers, of Lansing, Michigan. His
son, Thomas Byron Ballard, who was a
freshman at Washington and Lee last year, is now a sec-
ond lieutenant of Infantry.

Crayton FE. WILLIAMS is now a professor-farmer,
having bought a farm on the outskirts of Lexington. He
re-modeled the house there and is very happy in this new
interest, as he says he was born and reared on a farm.

Tom GLascow has a large and interesting family:
five of his own and an English refugee girl, who is mak-
ing her home with them for the duration. They are all
up and coming. He is president of Glasgow-Stewart and
Company, Auto Supplies, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Joun Crist is claimed by two classes at Washington
and Lee, ’12 and ‘13. However, he does not get into any
argument about it and is loyal to both classes. He was
elected a member of the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees at its
meeting at Finals. His son is in his second year at the
University. He is president of the Southern Dyestuffs
Corporation of Charlotte, and is the only southern mem-
ber of an eight-man commission, appointed by the presi-
dent on the allocation of chemicals in the war effort.

1913

Henry PEEPLEs is in the insurance business in De-
catur, Georgia. His son, Henry, Jr., who was in the Class

yh
poll Ly,
E yy

of ’43 at Washington and Lee, has completed his primary
training as a Cadet in the Army Pilot Training Course at
Helena, Arkansas, and was on his way to Basic in April
when this letter was written. His father is justly proud
of his ability to serve his country in this capacity. His
daughter is a sophomore at the University of Georgia.

Lewis TwyMan, member of the law firm of Twy-
man Brothers, Miami, Florida writes such a fine tribute
to Washington and Lee that we are quoting it here:

“TI*rom my earliest youth I was taught to value edu-
cation, and I think that to a reasonable extent I have ap-
preciated and valued it, but never in my life was I as

glad as I am today that I hold my academic
and law degree. When the financial house,
yo at least, is toppling all about us, it is a

Vin nothing but insanity can rob us of such
Y education as we enjoy. In fact, I have al-

~\

“

 
 

rather comforting feeling to know that

ways been glad that I attended the particu-
YY lar school which chance, or someone else,
4) selected for me. However, today when such

emphasis is necessarily being placed upon

character and when true values are given

their proper place and weight, I am doubly
glad to be an alumnus of Washington
and Lee. Indeed I am more sure now than ever before
that if I had the right to re-designate the school of which
I am privileged to be an alumnus I would make no

change.”

1915

Bos SHAW is manager of the Engineering Depart-
ment of the tubes works of RCA Manufacturing Com-
pany at Harrison, New Jersey. He has two children at
the University of Wisconsin—one a junior in Home E.co-
nomics and the other a freshman in Engineering.

TAYLOR STUKES is one of the judges of the Supreme
Court of South Carolina. His oldest child, a daughter, is
in her first year at Agnes Scott; his son is in high school.

1916

GEORGE SHorg, attorney-at-law, Sumter, South Caro-
lina, says: “If any of the members of the class are in-
terested in fishing for black bass with rod and reel or
fly rod, I would like to hear from them, or, better still,
join them on a fishing trip some day.”

1916

Fart B. Rose, 537 N. Broadway, Lexington, Ken-
tucky, was a visitor to the campus last fall. His son was

| 20 |

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Oe

jlanning to enter the law school at Washington and Lee
this fall, but now expects to be commissioned a second
lieutenant. His second son graduated at Culver Military
Academy in June, having completed four years of Senior
R.O.T.C. work, and his status is not definitely deter-
mined. He hopes he will be able to get in one year of col-
lege at Washington and Lee.

RUSSELL $. RuopEs has been general manager of the
Tulsa, Oklahoma, Chamber of Commerce, and in Octo-
ber, 1941, was elected president of the National Associa-
tion of Commercial Organization Secretaries. His only
daughter, Katherine, attended Randolph-Macon Col-
lege for two years and is now completing
her junior year at the University of Okla-
homa.

ye
JoHN RaAIns writes from Little Rock, S
Arkansas: ‘‘My memory often takes me
back to Washington and Lee, more so re-
cently, as my son, John, graduated there
this May. Twenty-six years is a long per-_;
iod, but in thinking back, it does not seem
like that number of years have passed since
my campus days.”

ll

 

 

= MU Bp

MM SS

ford Ordnance Works and later at the Sunflower Ord-
nance Works, Lawrence, Kansas. He is in the Engineer-
ing Department on construction work.

A. G. (“GALLA”) Paxton is now a Brigadier Gen-
eral, U. S. A. His forwarding address is still Greenville,
Mississipp1.

S. EK. Durrance, 60 N. Court Street, Orlando, Flori-
da, is president of the Orange County Bar Association
and was recently appointed Municipal Judge of Orlando.

GEORGE PRINCE ARNOLD is assistant commissioner in
charge of public relations, Virginia Conservation Com-
mission, Richmond, Virginia.

1918

Joun McCuorp was in Lexington on
Founders Day and was “‘tapped”’ for ODK.
He says it made him feel young again. He
is a member of the law firm of Calfee and
Fogg, 308 Euclid Avenue Building, Cleve-
land, Ohio, is serving as Appeal Agent for
the Draft Board and conducting a school
as one of the directors of the Cleveland Au-
tomobile Club for Drivers Defense Corps.

—

 

1917
Harry CAMPBELL writes his class fe. PRANCIS: Ho Sivigs; 15°" Mernoad

agent: “‘It is hard to believe that twenty-five years ago
you and [ and the rest of our class were reading and dis-
cussing the news of another war and impatiently await-
ing Finals at Lexington.’ He is practicing law in Charles-
ton, West Virginia. Three other members of this class
are also practicing law in Charleston: Charlie Peters,
Sam Silverstein, and John Preston.

GABRIEL DE LA Hapa, writing, on April 23, 1942, was
busily engaged in the practice of law in San Juan, Puerto
Rico. He says: “My services in this war have been limited
to serving as Appeal Agent on one of the local boards
and now as Special Assistant to the Attorney General in
charge of hearings under the conscientious objector sec-
tions of the Selective Service Act.’ He served in World
War I. His oldest son is fifteen.

Bos KANE 1s attorney for the RCA Manufacturing
Company, at Camden, New Jersey. At present they are
engaged wholly in manufacturing products to win the
war. His daughter, Patty, graduated at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College. Her uncle, William Allen White, of
Emporia, Kansas, delivered the graduation address.

MARION SANDERS has been with the Hercules Powder
Company for the past year and a half, first at the Rad-

Square, Dublin, Ireland, writes: “It is rather interesting
that the United States Government should now have two
Washington and Lee men in charge of running all its
consular activities in Ireland, for Parker Buhrman
(LL.B. ’17) is Consul General at Belfast, Northern Ire-
land, and I am Consul in Charge of the Consulate Gen-
eral at Dublin, Eire.’

1919

RatpH Moore has moved from Mt. Clinton, Vir-
ginia, where he has been teaching for seven years in the
Rockingham Schools to Lynchburg as assistant superin-
tendent of the Presbyterian Orphan’s Home. His ad-
dress is 115 Linden Avenue, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Jimmig Fain, The City National Bank of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, writes: “Last Saturday Wash-
ington and Lee sent a golf team to Winston-Salem to
participate in the intercollegiate tournament held here.
Duke, Carolina, Davidson, Wake Forest, V.M.I., Wash-
ington and Lee and others were represented. I had an
opportunity to meet the boys and their coach. We had a
fine tournament; however, Duke won the show and
Washington and Lee took fourth place. The thing that
impressed me was the fine type of interesting, intelligent

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

boys who came here representing Washington and Lee.
If they are representatives of the student body, I am con-
fident that old Washington and Lee has excellent material
from which will come leaders in American business, gov-
ernment and Christian leadership.”

1920
By CHESTER SHADE, Class Agent, ’20-L

TT. SELDEN JONES is in practice at Huntington, West
Virginia, with offices in the First Huntington National
Bank Building. Shrimp modestly avers that he has noth-
ing to say for publication, since his story is well known
to our classmates. He says he is still try-
ing to earn enough from our chosen pro-
fession to furnish tax-and-eating money,
but my private gestapo states this is a
eross exaggeration.

FLpon P. Kinc is now special deputy
commissioner of the Bureau of Internal f
Revenue, to which position he was ap- /
pointed in 1933 after serving in the legal
branch of the Bureau since his gradua-
tion. Eldon was one of a committee sent
to Great Britain in 1934 to study the
British tax system. On several occasions
he has been called to attend the meetings
of the Fiscal Committee of the League of Nations at
Geneva and Mexico City with a view to eliminating or al-
leviating international double taxation of resident and
non-resident aliens and establishing principles of inter-
national administrative cooperation as affecting tax as-
sessment and collection. Fldon’s wife and daughter have
accompanied him on some of his travels. They live at

3821 Fulton Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

   

=
REPS a5 1/9

Fe
i?

OB, PSSST F

  

Harotp G. Ropertson is president of the Liberty
Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. He has been in the bank-
ing business for 20 years and served as Trust Officer of
the Mountain Trust Bank in Roanoke for eight years be-
fore going to the Liberty Trust. Harold, of course, sees
many Washington and Lee men in his daily rounds in
Roanoke. He lives at Salem, Virginia.

ALEX WALKER, who was transferred from Wash-
ington to Philadelphia with other “SEC-ites,” gives his
new address as 407 Penwyn Road, Wynnewood, Penn-
sylvania. His son, Alexander Hamilton, Jr., is in his
third year at Washington and Lee.

Ran CABELL has been living at Virginia Beach since
1940, first on duty at Fort Story, and since Christmas at
the Norfolk Operating Base. Previously he had put in a

 
     
      
 

Mt Hi NM

good many years in the Virginia National Guard, and,
when the guard was federalized, came in as a Lieutenant
Colonel. After eighteen months’ service he thought it
probable he would soon be headed for parts unknown.

Harry L,. Moors ts professor of Poultry Husbandry
at Virginia Polytechnic Institute. He was a member of
the Washington and Lee Ambulance Corps in World
War I. He writes:

“T teach during the spring quarter and have just re-
turned from a field trip with one of my classes, up
through Lexington, Harrisonburg and other sections vis-
iting poultry setups. As always when I take a group of

strangers through Lexington, I drove
\ through the Washington and Lee grounds
and pointed out the different buildings. |
{ could not help but tell the students, the
a majority of whom will graduate in June
Ads sy 4v and will be officers in the army, of the
i activities on the campus just 25 years
fj ago when the V.M.I. boys came over and
‘drilled the students two or three after-
ob noons a week; of the boys who left there
_.to go to Reserve Officers’ Training Camp ;
~ and of the boys who left to go into the
Ambulance Unit.

“You will probably recall how Pete
Hisle had to be stretched two inches in the gymnasium
before the army officers would take him in, and how Sid
Johnson and Jim Rowan had to eat two or three meals
just before getting on the scales in order to qualify for

weight. You will probably remember also that the army

officers came just at the time we had exams and those of
us who were enlisting in the Ambulance Corps asked that
we be examined as early as possible so as not to have
to take the exams.”

C. D. McCaBe just missed going over seas as an air
pilot in the last war, as the Armistice was declared while
he was waiting for a boat. He will have his chance this
time as he is now a captain in the Air Corps.

1921

GRAY FUNKHOUSER is teaching mathematics at ‘The
Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire. He
is at present engaged in preparing a second edition of
a textbook in trigonometry so as to make it more directly
applicable to military matters.

R. W. (“Porsy’’) Cors is in the insurance business in
Richmond, Virginia. He says: ‘Twenty years ago (come
May 19, 1942), I embarked on the sea of matrimony.

| 22 |

ei Mit ate Tk

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

SS

Once or twice I have encountered heavy head winds, but
the mainsail is still up, and the flag proudly floats. In ad-
dition to my wife, the members of the crew are Robert
W. Cole, Jr., 18 next July, and Mary Kathleen Cole, 13
years old next November. If I do say so, it is a hale and
hearty crew, and all are thoroughly capable of handling
the old ship as she sails along.”

A. MiLLinc BERNSTEIN missed a curve one night in
March, 1941, and in the resultant wreck did damage to
his left arm, requiring him to remain in the hospital for
about a year with the arm immobilized. He underwent
innumerable operations, which were all very interesting
but somewhat confining. Happily, he
now has a useful arm. His son finishes
high school this year and will come to

\ |

Washington and Lee. eu
ee ev 4

1922 SN }

J. qornpsay,- 1D.) Rector 0b. ot” MK Ads
Mark’s Memorial Parish House, 2539 -
Channing Way, Berkeley, California, wa eS
was awarded the Doctor of Divinity de- «gy{SHVUH)

in May, 1942.

Ropert M. Berar has been made a
full professor at Dartmouth College, where he teaches
Psychology. He recently had the honor of addressing the
Naval War College at Newport, Rhode Island.

W. J. L. Parron was promoted from assistant cash-
ier to assistant comptroller of the National City Bank of
New York (not the Chase National Bank as reported in
a recent Alumni Magazine). On February 7, 1942, he
became the father of a baby girl. Also, oil has just been
struck on some property in Virginia in which he holds an
interest. Sounds like his lucky year.

1923

Cy Hatt has changed his firm since the first of the

year, the new set-up being Hall and Altizer, Charleston
National Bank Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

GrorcEe Mason, Madison, North Carolina, is presi-
dent of Gem-Dandy, Inc., manufacturers of ladies’ foun-
dation garments.

Jay McDonatp is still with the same millinery con-
cern he started with eighteen years ago and is in charge
of supervising departments in several states, with his
office in Cleveland, Ohio. He says some of the boys still
can’t get used to the idea of a Washington-and Lee foot-

 

ball player winding up in the ladies’ hat business. How-
ever, he says, “Anything can happen,” and it has been
is 2820 TLwudlow, Shaker

good to him. His address

Heights, Cleveland, Ohio.

THOMAS JEAN ELvis accepted an appointment about
three years ago as assistant attorney general of the State
of Florida, and liked living in Tallahassee so well that
he subsequently opened a law office there. His address is
Centennial Building, Tallahassee, Florida.

JosEPpH R. Lone, 1s still practicing law at the old
stand, 506 Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri, in spite of

ae the heat and the demands upon his time
VA levied by his service in the Missouri
Je State Guard, in which he is now the
VES proud commander of a battalion of in-
| fen fantry.
Rc 1924

TURNER MErRIT, in anticipation of
further tire and gasoline restrictions,
has changed his address to 604 2nd

SI

| <M

| M_iZia A venue, Decatur, Georgia, in order to

be within walking distance of his prin-

cipal after-hours activities, his Boy
—= Scout Troop and his church. This has
been an eventful year with him; he has registered under
the Selective Service Act; the Atlanta Area Council has
awarded him the Scoutmaster’s Key at its annual meet-
ing, and he has been elected and ordained as a Deacon

in his church.

VicKErs War's says: “I’m still single, and a disap-
pointment to everyone except myself. I have half a dozen
jobs and don’t work very hard at any of them.’’ In addi-
tion to these jobs he says he runs a small, one-man, law
office, accepting only the work which interests him.

ly. D. Gipson hastens to explain why he is apparently
leading a double life. His official residence, where reside
his wife and fourteen year old daughter, is 282 West
Fourth Street, Mansfield, Ohio. He also has a residence
at 1550 Bryn Mawr Drive, Dayton, Ohio, in order to
carry on his duties as a member of the Civilian Personnel
Branch of Air Service Command, Army Air Forces,
Wright Field.

G. S. SpRAGINS went to California after a few years
spent in his home town in Arkansas. He has had a won-
derful time of it, working in the extensive Bank of
Ameria branch banking system, getting married and hay-
ing two children, a daughter, Virginia, thirteen, and G. S.
Jr., now five. He is manager of the West Arcadia Branch,

[23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Bank of America, Arcadia, California, where he has
built a house.

Rospert B. CAMPBELL has recently moved to Lorain,
Ohio, where he has accepted a call to The Church of the
Redeemer. This is the only Episcopal Church in a town
of 50,000, and has 575 communicants.

1926

EmmMetr W. MacCork es is stationed at the Norfolk
Navy Yard as a Lieutenant. He says:
with me is the arrival of Emmett Wallace MacCorkle,
III, several months ago, (Feb. 10). We hope that
he will be ready to enter Washington
and Lee with the Class of 1964 which will
be just ninety years after his grandfather
entered Washington and Lee as a fresh-
man when General Leé was president.

“The main news

Fart A. CapMUS is practicing law in ae
Portsmouth, Virginia. He was married {ff
July 8, 1941 to Miss Elsie Hindman, an A ANN
alumnus of Mary Baldwin College, and ~
they live at 161 Broad Street, Portsmouth, ==
Virginia.

{ ‘- oe be

i

th

RAKE : >
eH} Pee | AA. SRY 2
TERETE . 312-7) y

AE

 

1927 : =

Davin H: Wice has accepted a call

from Omaha, Nebraska, to Newark, New Jersey, where

he is Rabbi of Congregation B’nai Jeshurun, High Street
and Waverly Avenue.

ALLEN Harris, JR., has been commissioned [ieuten-
ant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve, and when his letter was
written last March, was on active duty, Kighth Naval
District, New Orleans, Louisiana.

1928

GERALD F. Horineé is with the War Production
Board in Washington as an industrial specialist. His
residence address is 400 Commonwealth Avenue, Alex-
andria, Virginia. ,

1929

CHarLigt MERCKE enlisted in the United States Coast
Guard on April 7, 1942. He is married and has a daugh-
ter born November 27, 1941.

1930

GEORGE JUNKIN (writing in April, 42) said he had
been at Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa, for the past
year, where he expected to be until July 1, 1942, at which
time he would return to Washington, D. C., as assistant

  
 

statistician in the Acturial and Analysis section of FCIC.

Ropert W. Mostey has been manager of the Wilson
Wholesale Grocery Company at Wilson, Arkansas, since
January 3, 1942, and since April 1, 1942, at Osceola, Ark-
ansas. Osceola is only twelve miles from Wilson. ‘This
wholesale grocery concern is part of the Lee Wilson
Fstate, the largest plantation in the United States. It
covers 60,000 acres of the richest land in the world on
the banks of the Mississippi River in Mississippi County,
Arkansas. The plantation includes seven small towns, a
railroad, and 46 different enterprises.

Rosert FE. CLapp, JR., since his last letter to his class
agent, has been married, and when his
letter was written in May was temporarily
living in Baltimore at the Canterbury

Apartments, 39th and Canterbury Road.
This change of residence was due to his
appointment as assistant attorney general
of the state of Maryland on June 1, 1939.
He has spent his time since then attending
aes a penign of the duties of the Attorney

 

ae: of the State.
=== Mossy JERROW, Jr., is still practicing
Siygess oa

law in Lynehbure, Virginia. “Ehe. birth of
Mosby Garland Perrow, III, on January 19, 1942, brings
his total to two children. He has also been elected to the
Lynchburg School Board.

1931

ALBERT G. PEERY is still practicing law in Tazewell,
Virginia. He reports the birth of a son, George Junkin
Peery, born last June (1941).

1932

Litoyp H. Ricumonp joined forces with J. Edgar
Hoover in the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1934,
but resigned in 1941. During this time he lived in 14
different cities and accumulated a wife and two children.
In private life he is now personnel manager of a Mont-
gomery Ward Mail Order Branch, where he has the
future of 2500 people to worry about.

Cartes A. Woop, Jr., Major, QMC, is stationed in
Charleston, West Virginia, with state headquarters of
Selective Service. He was married in Lee Chapel on
August 30, 1941, to Helen Margaret Elliott. He says:
“If you have never pulled away from the front of the
Robert E. Lee Hotel with a string of oil cans dangling

| 24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ee
from under part of your car, you have not seen Lexing-

ton! !”’
1955

Henry F. Arnotp is editor and publisher of the
Cullman Tribune, Cullman, Alabama. His paper was
rated third best among the weekly papers of Alabama, in
a contest sponsored by the School of Journalism at the
University of Alabama. He and his wife have many civic
interests. They were visitors to the campus about a year

ago.

Britt Brooks, due to the emergency, has shifted from
the automobile business to aircraft. He is now with the

Fisher Memphis Aircraft Division. His 5

address is 288 N. McLean, Memphis,

‘Tennessee.

CopELAND ADAMS, writing on April

3, 1942, was home on leave from duty

with the Navy as a chief petty officer.

He expected to do recruiting duty and

hopes to be stationed in Virginia. His :
home is in Blackstone, Virginia. : a i

eS

CHARLIE LONGACRE is_ teaching
school in Elizabeth, New Jersey, but
says the teaching is rapidly becoming his
secondary occupation as he is engaged in so many local
war activities. His address is 32 Raymond Terrace.

Cart B. Vicxkers is prosecuting attorney of Fayette,
County, Fayeteville, West Virginia. He is married and
has three children, one boy and two girls.

E. MarsHaLit NuCKOLS, JR., is now general counsel
for the Campbell Soup Company.

1934

Tuomas D. (“Tommy”) ANDERSON is now a Lieu-
tenant (j.g.) Naval Reserve, stationed in New Orleans.
His wife and new baby, Helen Sharpe Anderson, are liv-
ing in New Orleans at 1304 First Street.

Rucse DEVAN, Jr., DeVan and Company, Insurance,
reports moving his offices to a new building, having been
in the old building for about thirty years. He has also
acquired a new home and a new baby, Rugely P. De-
Vanilli.

1936

Oray M. Davis, Jr., spent four years after leaving
school as a construction engineer with the North-Eastern
Construction Company of Winston-Salem, North Caro-
lina, and also Presidential Gardens of Winston-Salem,

 

North Carolina. During the past two years he has been
employed by the War Department, Bureau of the Corps
of Engineers, as a Civil Engineer in Washington. He was
married in 1938 and has a baby boy.

1937

lL. ¥. (“Jimmy’) Butver has been in the cotton
business in Memphis since his graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee, He is a. partner in the firm of F. M;
Crump and Company, cotton brokers. He is married and
has one son, Landon V. Butler, Jr.

G. C. CROWELL is minister of the Calvary Presby-
terian Church, Jackson Boulevard at
Keeler Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

ERSKINE SPROUL has completed his
medical course at the University of Vir-
ginia, and his internship at the Union
Memorial. He is now a Lieutenant in
the Army Medical Corps.

1938

EnNsicn Bitty WILSON, JR., was

married and landed in the Navy at the same time.

1939
Tom R. BryAnv is employed in the personnel depart-
ment of the Hercules Powder Company in Radford, Vir-
ginia. He was married in March. His address is 115 First
Street, South Roanoke, Roanoke, Virginia.

Dick LARRICK is in his third year of graduate school
at the University of Minnesota. He hopes to get his
Ph.D. degree sometime in 1943. During the summer he
worked in the research laboratory of the Beacon Com-
pany.

ANpDREW M. Eastwick, JR., is with the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey. He reports the birth of a son
on November 21, 1941. His home is at 4211 Liberty
Heights Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

1940
STEPH STEVENSON, Bucky Stoops, and Buddy Foltz
are with the F.B.I. as special investigators.

1941
Joun D. DurHam is in the Army, and says: “There
is an awful lot of water between me and where I used
to be.”

an
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Precise Bae for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

Notre: Complete sets are available at this date in Mulberry and Green omly.
Single plates in all colors are in stock except as follows: Mulberry, scene 2; Green,
scene 4; Blue, scenes 1, 2, and 4.

One Complete set of eight plates [ | (or else check desired-views below )

CENTER VIEWS

1° Washington. College... 4 4.. Be 5. Carneore library. ae tJ
m Lee Capes A bye Lo 6. Doremus-Gymnasium ........0...- Poel
o: Lee-jagkson Homie: 3030. Eye 7, lutker Hallivs oes baal
A amples Wee i al 4 8.: Washington College, 1857.......7.. hg

Cheek color choice: ..»"| | Blue [: | @feen [ ] Mulberry
Ship plates to: :

WATE ei oe he ke eo a ae gen, 2 ae sate te lees e's

ACOTeSS tc te eh a ee. oo Bt Say ee fe es a ae

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be

