gazine

0
vw
Oo
4

 

eh

mni

 

Washington and Lee Univers

Ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

THAT REMINDS ME!

 

 

 

I've got to send in my
Bicentennial Gitt
Before December 31st
it it's going to bring in
its share of the

Rockefeller money

AUG 1 9°52

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

————
A alachian—Judge William V. Birchfield, 18.
PP Marion, Virginia

‘ John M. Raines, '16, 1600 Arch
i orreet, Little Rock, Arkansas
Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building
alti .—_ Lawrence Galloway, 43, 1009
Baltyodbourne Avenue
Birmingham—John F. Hendon, ’24, 1631 North
Third Avenue
‘harles , West Virginia—Kelley Reed, °37,
; mati Kanawha Boulevard
ts ooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
t.nooge Bank Building
i _j. W. Cook, Jr., °19, 2220 Pioneer
Tad. fvanston, Illinois
Cincinnati Robert B. Shreve, °40, 576 Howell
Avenue
Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., °41, Park
Road
-eland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘'25, 1759
Clevsnion Commerce Building
Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, ‘24, P.O.
Box 61
troit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
Det ational Rank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—B. L. Malone, '24 Flor-
ida National Bank Bldg., St. Petersburg

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, *25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Robert C. Hobson, '40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—John S. Caskie, '25, Caskie Pa-
per Company

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Gossett W. McRae, '28, 19 Rector
Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
‘18. Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., "41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—Harry Rand, ‘27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth
Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House
eee alse D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
reet

Piedmont Dr. O. Norris Smith, ’29, 363 North
Elm Street, Greensboro, North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Kenneth P. Lane, '36, Box 1538

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, °15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ‘38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Elwood Seal, '16, 726 Jack-
son Place, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Fidttor.........c0m Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Vol. XXIV NOVEMBER, 1948 No. 1

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President ...2c.ce.ccc0ctebt ong ake: Amos Boten, 1934
Vice-President............ Henry P. Jonunston, 1929
SOCTELOLY...0....-..0085. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
T TOASUTET 00. 0cccceveersesees, WarreEN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Amos A. Boren, 1934
LAURENCE W. Wixson, 1910
Henry P. Jounston, 1929
FREDERICK S. Jounson, 1911
WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. Puitiips, 1908
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931

LEon W. Harris, 1915

ABOUT OUR COVER

Bicentennial chairmen and alumni leaders and their wives
gather on the porch of the President’s home for the reception
and coffee hour which opened The Chairman’s Day Program

BICENTENNIAL DEVELOPMENTS

Address by Chief Justice Opens Bicentennial Year
; (see excerpts, page 7)
100 Regional Chairmen and Leaders Attend Opening Exercises
(see list, page 8)
Luce and Freeman Added to List of Speakers
(see story, page 10)
Five Alumni Inaugurate Lecture Series
(see story, page 15)
Fund Campaign Will Climax in December
(see story, page 10)
National Celebration and Alumni Reunion, June 16-18
(see announcement, inside back cover)

FOUNDED, 1749, AS AUGUSTA ACADEMY,
AR GREENVILLE: ESTABLISHED AY

AND NAMED FOR HIM.
1965-1870, OF ROBER

IN THE UNI
NAME AFTER DEATH

IN THE OFFIC!

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Historic Shirt-Tearing

“T am tearing my shirt,” wrote Major Henry Lee Higgin-
‘on to his friend, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, in 1901, “to

get a few remaining dollars—for Washington and Lee Uni-

versity.” x * * * *

Now Major Higginson was indeed a proper Bostonian,
scion of a great abolitionist line, founder of the Boston Sym-
phony, treasurer of the Harvard Corporation.

His shirt-tearing was as effectual as it was fervent. He
raised more than a few dollars. The group that responded to
his appeal was remarkable, including Grover Cleveland, Har-
vard University (well, the Major gave some of his money in
the name of his Alma Mater), George Washington Carver
($5—but no small gift at that from the Tuskegee scientist),
and many other men of nation-wide prominence.

* * * * *

The episode of the dear Major’s shirt-tearing brings to
mind—if that were the point of these scattered items—this
fact: Washington and Lee men have cause to be grateful to
many individuals who were non-alumni, who owed no actual
obligation to this institution, yet elected it as the agency of
their dedicated generosity, of their hope to influence helpfully
all the future.

x * * *k *

Washington was of this fellowship as was John Robinson
and as were the officers of the Society of the Cincinnati in
Virginia; in the same category were those immortals who
came to the aid of Robert E. Lee—McCormick and Corcoran,
Peabody and Newcomb, Scott, and all the others of that
dramatic chapter; and still the honor roll grows with the
years—Doremus and Payne and Mrs. Menkemeller, and all
their fellows. The largest donor among living friends is a
non-alumnus. It is all part of the inspiring story that makes
the chronicle of Washington and Lee.

ee Se i ee

Back to my theme: In the present effort to raise funds,
the supreme single effort of the University’s history, we

acknowledge with happy and humble gratitude the benefi-
cence of many who are not on the alumni rolls, and we con-
fess with deep appreciation the heartening testimony of our
own alumni who have given money and thought and time
and the compulsions of their sweet influence, all for their own
Alma Mater. To them go our thanks, warm, sincere, eternal.

RA Eo A ee

Immediately this is the thought; are there not some alumni
yet willing to tear their shirts to get “a few remaining dol-

lars?
x ke * *k x

Beyond this campaign there are immense opportunities.
Here’s an example. We received on October 15 a bequest
that has in it elements of the unique. It sprang originally from
the estate of Colonel A. K. McClure of Philadelphia. His in-
terest was enlisted in a meeting of friends and alumni in
his home town in 1876. He died in 1916, aged 88; his wife
died much later at the age of 101; the money then passed
through a sister’s hands, if we have the facts right—and came
to us three score and ten years after the original purpose

was made.
x * * * x

Receiving that bequest with thankful hearts, we know that
we reaped where some alumnus or friend had sowed in the
almost immemorial past.

x* * * * X

Among alumni and friends we must have many who will
yet tear a good shirt for Alma Mater—or plant seeds that
will bear a blessed harvest in some yet undetermined year.

x* * * *

And this point with no reference to our petition: Please
bear in mind the great national celebration and alumni _ re-
union, June 16-18, 1949. We shall be happy and encouraged
by your coming, and we shall have a story to tell of your
generosity; but principally we shall re-consecrate the Uni-
versity of your heart to the ideals which have sustained it in
the past, which justify it for the future.

et @74c fn 6

President

[5 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

The Opening Academic Procession files through the gymnasium, led by Prof. Charles P. Light, Marshal of the University.
Following are President Francis P. Gaines, Chief Justice Vinson, Dean James G. Leyburn, and Dr. George H. Denny, former
president. On the left are senior law students; on the right, chairmen and guests.

Chief Justice Opens Bicentennial Year

 

Alumni gather at the President’s home for coffee. Mrs. Allen
T. Snyder, ’39, pours for Dr. Denny, Roger Winborne, ’11,
and Roscoe Stephenson, ’08.

|

The Honorable Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the
United States, opened the Bicentennial Year at a convoca-

tion September 17 in Doremus Gymnasium. More than 100—

Ricentennial officials and alumni leaders and their wives were
present.

Represented among the guests who came to attend the
opening exercises and plan for the events of the year were
regional Bicentennial chairmen representing 14
states, members of the national Bicentennial committee, the
committee of nor-alumni sponsors, trustees of the Unversity,
and members of the board of the Alumni, Inc.

some 50

Washington and Lee law graduates from Virginia and
neighboring states attended the convocation and a luncheon
which followed. H. Graham Morison, ’32, assistant attorney
eeneral of the United States, addressed the luncheon group.

The Chairmen’s Day program opened with a coffee hour,
when Dr. and Mrs. Gaines were hosts to the group at an in-
formal gathering at their home preceding the convocation.

At noon the academic procession entered Doremus Gym-
nasium, where the Chief Justice made a scholarly address
which traced the connection between Washington and Lee,
as representative of the colonial institutions of learning, and
the doctrines which are the basis of American constitutional
government.

_

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ll

the men gathered at the Robert EK. Lee hotel to

While ;
| Mr. Morison, the ladies were guests at a luncheon at the
ica, =45-

Dutch Inn. ‘ie es Zn se we
During the afternoon, alumni officials, trustees and chair

‘1 the Browsing Room of McCormick Library to
concluding months of the Bicentennial Fund Cam-
Chenery, ’09, executive chairman, pre-

men met

lan the is
Christopher i

paign.

sided. ‘ sd ’
Mr. Chenery, Col. Milton B. Rogers, 17, and John W.

cve ‘'%) members of the national committee, were hosts to

the group at a sunset party at the Natural Bridge Hotel, which
was followed by a smorgasbord supper. Homer A. Holt, ’25,
presided, and President Gaines spoke.

hed 2 pe ee

From the Opening Address
By Chief Justice Vinson

“The Bicentennial Year we here today celebrate is a na-
tional, as well as a local, event.... This institution was here
to serve the nation before there was a nation to be served.
Its span of life begins earlier than, and runs along with, the
span of national life.

“Already two centuries ago the people of the Virginia
vallevs were alert to what lay ahead....The English had
brought with them an urge to
eet about in the world; the
Scots, equally good at a horse-
trade. had brought from the
homeland a belief in the sheer
Then, as
now, they industri-
conservative and disturb-
in the community.

magic of learning.
formed an
ous,

ing element

 

Their sons became parsons,
school-teachers and _  editors—
the Scots, especially the so-
called Scotch-Irish, would al-
ways rather talk than write;
and they went in for such

things as church - discipline,

printing presses, a lot of dissent, and academies. And so, as
before—the vicinage needed it, Augusta
ned its doors, and offered as good an education
as any to be had along the frontier. The event is the more
significant because, in that then western land, among the for-
ward looking folk, a number of others of like kind were arising.

SOON as Or even

Academy op«

“It was after—and I am disposed to say because of—the
establishment of this academy and the environment which
produced it, that society was shaken to its foundations. It
all came about through an awakening of the common people
and a liberation of the minds of men, of which the early
colonial venture was a part. The spirit of the colonies was
fused with—and gave dominance to—European streams of
thought; and out of the fusion was born a new world.

Fe: lhe signers of the Declaration of Independence became
Citizens of their several soverign states and almost American
“itizens. I say “almost” advisedly, for their first allegiance
Was to their several states: it could not be a country, which
meee the Continental Congress, was not yet quite a nation.
. ich a loyalty had to await a more perfect union: and that
im turn depended upon a newer and more fundamental instru-
iV \n ademy was not enough for the new republic: it
lad to change and grow in the country it served. My mind
es ociates the transformation of Augusta Academy,
ced} 7 ashington Academy, and later into W ashington
me ee University, with the formation of our Constitution.

For the person who first gave his name to this college pre-
sided over the Convention which framed the Constitution.
His greatest gift was his executive ability. He insisted upon
having about him a group of strong men who differed widely
among themselves. It was his superb ability to secure from
them a result which no one of them could have effected, yet
all were willing to accept.

“The Constitution organizes a government, serves the
necessities of a national community, guards the liberties of the

 

Two views of the speaker’s table at the luncheon. In the
first picture, on the left side, are Milton Rogers, °17, Bor-
den Burr, 98, Dr. Denny, and Percy H. Johnston, national
sponsor; on the right side, Harry Carmichael, 99, Walter
McDonald, ’10, Mosby Perrow, ’30, James R. Caskie, ’09,
Christopher T. Chenery, ’09. In the second picture, Earl
Fitzpatrick, ’29, sits at the far end, then Messrs, Rogers,
Burr, Denny, Johnston, Homer A. Holt, ’25, Graham Mori-
son, ’32 (the speaker), President Gaines, Chief Justice Vin-
son, Dr. L. J. Desha, 06, John W. Drye, ’20, and J. B. Fish-
burn, national sponsor. Identifiable on the left are J. C. Car-
penter, 08, and David Johnson, ’21.

 

 

LA]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

people. It evolved out of the thought and experience of the
past; it makes provision for the future; it is adapted to the so-
ciety it is called upon to serve. If it was “struck off” in a
single summer, its content had been long in the making.
Though it takes the form of a document, many quills were
dipped into many ink-horns before its words were fixed....
The content makes it the most remarkable of documents, but
the ideas were forged in the crucible of time and hammered
into shape by a process of deliberation amongst very able,
intelligent and patriotic men.

“As the operations of government were guarded against
special interests, so were they secured against passing cur-
rents of opinion. In much the same way, pains were taken—
I use the word literally—to banish from all departments the
arbitrary, and to insure by every department the responsible
use of its power. It has become the fashion of late to shrug
shoulders at the doctrine of ‘separation of powers;’ and
Mr. Justice Holmes is quite right in insisting that ‘the great
ordinances of the Constitution do not create fields of black
and white.’ And it must be admitted that, in days like ours,
with a necessary use of many administrative agencies, the
severity of old must be relaxed. None the less, the separation
of government into the executive, the legislative and the ju-
diciary—an independent judiciary—is to be numbered among
the greatest of political inventions. It marks almost a revo-
lutionary step forward in the realization of a government
which is truly responsible.

“Our Constitution... was given to a new republic, yet it
is today the oldest Constitution in the world. It could no more
have been produced by the stroke of a pen than could the com-
mon law, or the Magna Carta. Had it been the mere product
of an occasion, it would long since have passed into the dis-
card. Here I have spoken of the wisdom, intelligence, pre-
sight of the small group who framed the instrument. But I
insist that they shaped the future from the enduring experi-
ences and history of the ages.

“Tf we could understand all the impacts which have trans-
formed an Augusta Academy into the Washington and Lee
of today, we would understand everything, or at least all that
our finite minds can embrace. For the purpose of the Consti-
tution, and of institutions such as this, without whose sup-
port it could never be a living thing, has been, is, and ever
will be ‘to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, in-
sure Domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense,
promote general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty
to ourselves and our posterity’.”

 

 

Christopher T. Chenery, 09, presides over the business ses-
sion in the Browsing Room. In the right foreground, Henry
P. Johnston, ’29.

[8 ]

 

Above: Mrs. Vinson, Chief Justice Vinson, Mrs. Gaines,
President Gaines, Carter Glass, 13. Below: James R. Cas-
kie, 09, H. R. Stephenson, 40, Mrs. Stephenson, Edwin J.
Foltz, °40.

 

Among Those Present

Out-of-town guests were:

Dr. and Mrs. Andrew E. Amick, ’22, Lewisburg, W. Va
Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Bell, Jr., ’43, Charleston, W. Va
Mr. Amos A. Bolen, ’34, Huntington, W. Va.

Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Boxley, 09, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Brooks, °39, Petersburg, Va.

Mr. Borden Burr, ’98, Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Stewart Buxton, ’36, Memphis, Tenn.
Mr. Edmund D. Campbell, °18, Washington, D. C.

Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Cabell, ’21, Covington, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. H. St. G. T. Carmichael, 99, Kyrock, Ky.
Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Chenery, ’09, New York, N. Y.

Mr. Fred Cook, ’33, Waynesboro, Va.

Dr. and Mrs. F. R. Crawford, ’06, Farmville, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Carter Crymble, 718, Kingsport, Tenn.
Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Derr, ’10, Marietta, Ohio.

Mr. John W. Drye, ’20, New York, N. Y.

Mr. Richard T. Edwards, °33, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Fain, °19, Winston-Salem, N.G@
Mr. Edwin J. Foltz, ’40, Atlanta, Ga.

FROM THE ADDRESS BY GRAHAM MORISON:

“Each alumnus of Washington and Lee can say to him-
self: ‘I have rubbed elbows with a great tradition; perhaps 4
little of it has rubbed off on me.’ This tradition is not a dying
one. In fact, the only hope for this world today is in men of
influence who are rooted in just such a tradition.

“It has been said that the things of the spirit are the only
eternal verities. The Washington and Lee tradition is that
sort of a spiritual value. There is nothing greater to which
we can dedicate ourselves than to the perpetuation of this
tradition.”

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The chow line forms at Natural Bridge. That’s Mrs. Robert
W. Powers, 40, facing the camera, and Mrs. Warren White,
39. reaching under the table. Warren bows over the food.
At the far end Bruce Woodruff, ’16, talks to Stewart Bux-
ton, 36, dead center. Fred S. Johnson, ’11, wags his finger,
and Marvin Pullen, ’36, at his shoulder, ponders a third
piece of chicken. Leon W. Harris, *15, is the tallest man in
the crowd. Frank Bell, Jr., °43, is in the right foreground.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard K. Gibbons, ’21, Harrisonburg, Va.
Mr. and Mrs. Chandler Gordon, ’31, Asheville, N. C.

Mr. Edward Graves, ’30, Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Guthrie, ’11, Washington, D. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Seybert Hansel, ’17, Monterey, Va.

Mr. Leon W. Harris, ’15, Anderson, S. C.

Dr. and Mrs. R. P. Hawkins, 16, Clifton Forge, Va.

Mr. Stanley C. Higgins, 37, Fayetteville, W. Va.

Mr. and Mrs. E. Clyde Hoge, ’07, Cincinnati, Ohio

Mr. and Mrs. Homer A. Holt, ’25, New York, N. Y.

Mr. David D. Johnson, ’21, Pittsburgh, Penna.

Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Johnson, ’11, Willmington, Del.

Mr. Henry P. Johnston, ’29, Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Hannibal Joyce, ’32, Martinsville, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Omer T. Kaylor, ’11, Hagerstown, Md.
Mr. Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, ’13, Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. Samuel O. Laughlin, ’14, Wheeling, W. Va.

Mr. Walter McDonald, ’10, Cincinnati, Ohio

Mr. Lewis McMurran, ’36, Newport News, Va.

Judge and Mrs. A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ky.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Carroll Mead, ’25, Baltimore, Md.

Mr. Robert H. Moore, Jr., ’44, Bluefield, W. Va.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Graham Morison, ’32, Washington, D. C.
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Morrison, ’25, Charleston, W. Va.
Mr. Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20, New York, N. Y.

a

 

FROM THE ADDRESS BY PRESIDENT GAINES:

_ Washington and Lee is something more than an educa-
tonal institution—it is a trust, built up during 200 years by
men who gave of their lives and of their money. You in this
Stroup, who are giving of your time and your resources, are
the custodians of this trust.

“I greet you as co-workers in a challenging task—and I
fongratulate you on the privilege of accomplishing that task.”

| 9

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Powers, *40, Bennettsville, S. C.
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Pullen, ’36, Greensboro, N. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Reiter, Jr., 41, Cincinnati, Ohio
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Ripy, ’37, Lawrenceburg, Ky.

Col. and Mrs. M. B. Rogers, 17, New York, N. Y.

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Sanders, '17, Wytheville, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Shreve, 40, Cincinnati, Ohio
Judge Herbert G. Smith, °17, Newport News, Va.

Dr. Huston St. Clair, ’22, Tazewell, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Stephenson, 40, Greenville, S. C.
Mr. R. B. Stephenson, ’08, Covington, Va.

Mr. John S. Stump, ’24, Clarksburg, W. Va.

Mr. and Mrs. John Randolph Tucker, ’00, Richmond, Va.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Tutwiler, ’24, Welch, W. Va.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Vaughan, 42, South Boston, Va.
Mr. Elliott Vawter, ’09, Huntington, W. Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Manuel Weinberg, ’31, Frederick, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren White, 39, Norfolk, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Roger Winborne, *11, Lenior, N. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Allen H. Wofford, °33, Johnson City, Tenn.
Mr. Bruce Woodruff, ’16, Atlanta, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Cox, °17, Leesburg, Va.

Mr. Edward S. Boze, ’36, Richmond, Va.

Mr. Willis M. Everett, Jr., ’20, Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. Frank B. Lewis, °32, Staunton, Va.

Mr. James R. Caskie, 09, Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. Adrian L. Bendheim, *42, Richmond, Va.

Mr. Paul C. Buford, ’13, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. Rudolph Bumgardner, °35, Staunton, Va.

Mr. Martin P. Burks, ’32, Roanoke, Va.

Hon. J. C. Carpenter, ’08, Clifton Forge, Va.

Lt. Gov. L. P. Collins, ’20, Marion, Va.

Judge F. Crosby, Staunton, Va.

Mr. David Dillon, ’37, Martinsburg, W. Va.

Mr. J. T. Engleby, Jr., ’20, Roanoke, Va.

Col. N. C. Evans, ’16, Walter Reed Hospital, Washington
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Randolph Fairfax, Roanoke, Va.
Mr. S. D. Ferguson, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Fishburn, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. Beverly T. Fitzpatrick, 43, Roanoke, Va.

 

 

At the speaker’s table at Natural Bridge: Mr. Chenery, Mrs.
Holt, Chief Justice Vinson, Mrs. Gaines, Mr. Holt, Mrs.
Vinson, Dr. Gaines, Mrs. Desha, Mr. Percy Johnson, Mrs.
Rogers and Mr. McDonald.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Bicentennial leaders and chairmen who attended the Opening Exercises (Names of those not in the picture are listed else-
where in the magainze.) Bottom row: Morison, Poindexter, St. Clair, Rogers, Chenery, Holt, Denny, Stephenson, Guthrie
Shreve, Mann, Gibbons, Crawford, Reiter, Weinberg, Daves, Winborne. Second row: Brooks, Amick, Ripy, Woodruff, Bux
ton, Powers, Joyce, Vaughan, Tutwiler, D. Johnscn, Bell, Derr, Hoge, Gordon, Boxley, Lemon. Back Row: Fain, Cabe
Cook, White, Desha, McMurran, Wofford, Higgins, Bolen (co'umn), Vawter, Harris, Good, H. Johnston, Stump, Evere
Drye, Campbell, Kaylor, Carmichael, F. Johnson, Hansel, Pullen behind Morrison (co'umn), Kirkpatrick, Buford, Buchana

 

Hon. Earl Fitzpatrick, ’29, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. Walter E. Frye, ’45, Columbus, Ohio.

Mr. Carter Glass, Jr., °13, Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. J. S. Gruver, Washington, D. C.

Mr. S. G. Hamner, ’98, Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Percy H. Johnston, Montclair, N. J.
Mr. Allie H. Lane, ’47, Richmond, Va.

Mr. C. S. McNulty, 02, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. William L. Martin, ’36, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. W. E. Moore, ’25, Waynesboro, Va.

Mr. William F. Parkerson, ’47, Richmond, Va.
Hon. Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., 30, Lynchburg, Va.
Judge James Quarles, ’89, Staunton, Va.

Judge R. B. Spindle, ’06, Norfolk, Va.

Mr. Richard B. Spindle, III, ’47, Norfolk, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Taylor, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. John Randolph Tucker, Jr., 48, Richmond, Va.
Mr. Earl L. Valentine, ’26, Richmond, Va.

Chief Justice and Mrs. Vinson, Washington, D. C.
Judge Randolph G. Whittle, ’24, Roanoke, Va.
Mr. Daniel W. Wilkinson, Jr., Newport News, Va.
Mr. R. C. Wood, Jr., ’21, Lynchburg, Va.

Hon. Clifton A. Woodrum, ’08, Washington, D. C.
Mr. C. A. Woodrum, Jr., °33, Roanoke, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Kent Ford, 18, Clifton Forge, Va.

* * * * *

Fund Drive Reaches Climax

Contributions to the Bicentennial Fund exceeded $1,200,000
in late November, and the campaign will reach a climax dur-
ing December, Dr. J. L. Desha, ’06, executive director of the
Bicentennial, announced this week.

“Our chairmen and committee workers are making an all-
out effort during the first two weeks of this month,” he said.

 

“We are still more than $200,000 short of the amount neces
sary to claim the final $100,000 offered by the General Edu
cation Board. We cannot afford to let Washington and Lee
lose a dollar of this Rockefeller money through failure to
capitalize on this offer before the end of the year.”

Dr. Desha emphasized that only cash received by the
University, prior to December 3lst and earmarked for en-
dowment or scholarships, is eligible for the additional 25 per
cent added by the General Education Board.

 

Luce, Freeman and Dodds
Are Assembly Speakers

Henry R. Luce, publisher of Time, Life and Fortune maga-
zines, and Douglas S. Freeman, biographer of Lee and of
Washington, are the latest additions to the list of nationally
famous personnages who will appear on the compus during
the year-long series of Bicentennial events.

Mr. Luce, a Yale graduate, will address the annual Omi-
cron Delta Kappa assembly December 10. Students active in
extra-curricular affairs and a group of alumni and non-alumni
prominent in the business, professional and civic life of their
states will be initiated into the Alpha chapter of the national
leadership fraternity.

Dr. Freeman, Richmond editor and honorary Washington
and Lee alumnus, who this fall published the first two vol-
umes of his life of George Washington, will speak at the
Washington’s Birthday convocation February 22.

Dean D. Elton Trueblood of Earlham College will be the
keynote speaker at the University Religious Conference, No-
vember 30, which this year is being developed as one of the
Bicentennial features.

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

a

»oton-Cincinnati Convocation April 12, will be
» of the principal Bicentennial academic exercises.
‘dent H id W. Dodds of Princeton University will be
ee ae - Delegates from other universities and colleges
the Os ot, ‘nd honorary degrees will be awarded to
will oa ' + echolars. These exercises will coordinate with
ag a | annual Southern University Conference,
Se omec \Washineton and Lee as host, on April 13
and | 4. ef

Dr Dodds

his persolld

The W

the occaslO

the

~

bas been invited to speak not only because of
distinction, but because of his position as the
titution from which Washington and Lee re-
+s heritage through the teachers of Augusta

¢ ms

nead of tl
ceived muc!
and Libert) Hall acadenuies. ji

lohn W. Davis, 92, New Y ork attorney, former ambassa-
dor of Great Britain, and national Bicentennial chairman,
will inaugurate the John Randolph lucker lectures betore the
School of Law in early May. This event will coincide with
observation of the Law School, and alumni

the Centen! oi.
who are attorneys will be invited to attend the lectures.

The Schoo! Commerce will sponsor a conference of
alumni in conne tion with the meeting of the Southern Asso-
ciation of Scienc: and Industry here May 1, 2 and 3.

The climax of the Bicentennial Year will come June 16-18,
the dates of the National Celebration and Alumni Reunion.

Plans and speakers for this occasion and a tentative sched-

ule of events will be announced early in 1949. A committee
of alumni representing all sections of the United States and
the entire span of classes from 1879 to date has been appointed
by Amos Bolen, °34, president of Alumni Incorporated. This
committee consider program suggestions and approve
those which will appeal to most returning alumni. A local
arrangements committee 1s already preparing for the record
turn-out of alumni expected for the Reunion.

Cy Young, alumni secretary, stressed the fact that accom-
modations will be available for every alumnus who wishes to
return. However, reservations will not be made until a cur-
rent survey of rooming and eating facilities is complete. This
National Celebration is being held after W. and L. students
and VMI cadets have left Lexington so that maximum ac-
commodations will be available.
cards will be mailed to every alumnus on the
he said, and booking of rooms will begin immedi-
ately afterward. No room reservations will be made prior
to that time.

Reservation
same date,

HARRISON KINNEY, B.A., °47
MAKES THE SATURDAY EVENING POST

“The Lonesome Bear,” Saturday Evening Post, October
23, 1948, by Harrison Kinney, B.A., ’47, Phi Beta Kappa, is a
delightful; improbable tale of a seven-year old boy in a
little town called Fairfield, Maine, who followed literally his
tather’s oft repeated precept; “We must always be kind to
animals, sor The bear made his first appearance at the
candy counter set up on two boxes and a board by the small
older brother who furnished “the stuff,” pre-
from “Old Man store. Inor-
nd of marshmallows, the bear ensconsed himself
firmly in the affections of the family, except for the mother
and the hired maid who did not like the close association. In
addition ¢ his predilection for marshmallows, the bear
sreatly appreciated the father’s talent for singing to the ac-
compan ent of the ukulele, and also liked riding in the back
seat of automobiles. The town authorities balked at granting
a license ‘the bear as a family pet, although the father pro-
tested that if Teddy Roosevelt were president the matter
could be made a national issue. The Sheriff had troubles of

}

boy and
sumably

Osgood’s”
dinately

pilte red

his own as bank robberies had occurred in the vicinity and
he was expecting them to show up at the Farmers’ Trust in
‘airfield any night. It is rather a long story, but to shorten
it at the expense of leaving out many interesting sidelights,
the bear ensconsed himself in the back seat of the robbers’ car
just as they were making their get-away, and spotting the
bear in the rearview mirror, they wrecked the car and were
captured by the Sheriff. The bear received his share of the
bounty for capturing the robbers and a special license as a
family pet, enabling him to have an unlimited supply of marsh-
mallows, as well as the respectful toleration of the mother
and the maid. Bruin had escaped from a passing circus and his
owners were glad to be rid of him as his only show value
consisted in riding on the back seat of a car with two clowns
in the street parade.

((Harrison Kinney is now doing graduate work in jour-
nalism at Columbia University.)

 

RETIRING JUDGE DALLAS FLANNAGAN
HONORED

Judge Dallas Flannagan, “88, of 102 Upper Mountain
Avenue, Montclair, New Jersey, was honored by colleagues
and friends in ceremonies at the conclusion of twenty-sev-
en years’ service to his country and state, on the Common
Pleas bench. At the reception were Judges from all branches
of New Jersey’s then three-day old new legal system. Re-
minding his former colleagues on the bench that he had be-
come “a mere lawyer” again, Judge Flannagan warned them
that they faced long hours of deliberation on interpretation
of the new rules and regulations of the new court system.
“Who is going to work on these writings without extra pay?”
he asked. “The judges are. The joke is on the judges.”

 

 

Representing students and alumni of the Law School, Regi-
nald H. Pettus presented to the School on September 2, 1948,
a portrait of the late Raymon T. Johnson, member of the law
faculty since 1925 until his death on March 25, 1948. Dr.
Gaines accepted the portrait on behalf of the University, and
Charles Johnson, center, son of Professor Johnson, was pres-
ent at the ceremonies. The artist, Miss Burdette, of Washing-
ton, D. C., has done many copies and portraits from life now
hanging at the University.

| 11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Opening of the 200th Session

As Washington and Lee University opened its bicentenary
session this fall it was clearly evident that the trend is to-
ward normal conditions in most phases of college activity.

Breakdowns of enrollment figures released by Dean of Stu-
dents Frank J. Gilliam show a sharp drop in attendance of
veteran students in academic classes, and particularly amone
the freshman group.

While in 1947 there were 654 W. and L. academic students
with wartime military service, today the figure stands at 397.
In the entering class, only 35 of 308 freshmen are veterans.

However, in the School of Law, final registration heures
indicate that 208 of 233 students are veterans.

Kxcepting the change in percentage of veterans attending
academic classes, Washington and Lee’s student body com-
position shows surprisingly little change from 1947-48. There
are 1069 academic students registered in all sections of the
University, only slightly off the 1947 enrollment of 1281.

Thus Washington and Lee’s enrollment remains swollen,
although every effort is planned to reduce the student popu-
lation to something like the prewar average of 935. However,
while the school remains something more than ideally large,
recent additions to the faculty have served to practically eli-
minate a corresponding enlargement of class size.

New appointments effective at the opening of the 1948-49
year have raised the number of faculty and staff members of
the university to 85, and include:

Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, professor of Spanish:

Charles W. Williams, assistant professor of mathematics:

William J. Cooley, Jr., instructor in German:

David Gerard, instructor in English:

J. Neville McArthur, instructor in Spanish;

Miss Wanda Lee Spears, librarian in the School of Law:

Kdward P. Whaley, instructor in chemistry;

Lieutenant Kenneth C. Runquist, instructor in physical
education;

Charles O. Voigt, assistant professor of journalism:

Dr. Robert C. Krug, assistant professor of chemistry;

 

 

 

 

 

 

Meets His Advisor

A Freshman

Kdward S. Graves, lecturer in law; and

Lloyd J. Lanich, instructor in political science
tory and director of dramatics;

Wilson Miller, lecturer in law.

and his-

In regard to the decrease in veteran enrollment, the Uni-
versity emphatically states that it represents no discrimination
against men with military service, but simply means that the
majority of veterans who are prepared for college and who
might be normal applicants for admission to Washington
and Lee’s undergraduate school are already in college. The
great demand for places in the nation’s colleges that still ex-
ists, however, has probably resulted in selection of possibly
the best prepared group of men from preparatory and high
schools that has ever entered W. and L.

This year, the post-war problem of social fraternity mem-
bership is also rapidly approaching solution. In 1947 many
students who would have joined fraternities in normal times
were unable to do so; most of the 17 operating houses on the
W. and L,. campus were crammed with upper-class members
and could not accept large pledge classes.

Proof of the improving situation lies in the fact that only
one of every six or eight men who expressed an interest in
fraternities this fall were not pledged during the initial “rush-
ing” period in September.

With a 1948 group of freshmen who are younger than
any since the war—most of them are directly out of second-
ary schools—there is a vigor in extra-curricular and academic
phases of Washington and Lee life which prophesies an early
return to the University’s prewar pattern.

With applications for admission to Washington and Lee
expected to continue at the present high rate, the situation
in September, 1949, will remain critical. Therefore. Alumni
should read with special care the following statement concern-
ing the University’s admission policy for the 1949-50 session:

“In accord with the general policy of the Board of Trus-
tees, Washington and Lee will move back toward a normal
prewar enrollment. This goal will again result in a freshman
class of approximately 300. With every mail filled with re-
quests concerning admission, the following procedure has
been worked out. Interested applicants are urged to submit
their formal application blanks this fall. to permit ample time
for the full investigation of all records and references. Sup-
plementary records of grades made during the first semester
of the current session will be submitted after 1 February.
Around the end of April a tentative selection of the class will
be made, with a waiting list established, from which any va-
cancies through cancellations will be filled. Applicants whose
papers are approved in April, pending, of course, the satisfac-
tory completion of the current session’s work, will be asked to
pay in advance a reasonable proportion of the first semester's —
tution, in order to hold a place on the class roll.”

Alumni can render a great service to Washineton and
Lee in seeing that any boys who they feel would make de-
sirable students here are informed as to the current situation.
The fullest consideration will be given to the application of
any son, relative, or friend of an alumnus, but the final se-
lection must, of course, be on the relative merits of all phases
cf the applicant’s credentials; and all applications must be
completed in time to be given consideration in April when
the class will be selected.

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

a
. Son Father
Student Sons of Alumni Hines, William Edgar.....scsssssssssssesssesseen Kenneth Hines, '22

From records available in the Alumni Office, there are Ee eae aa ae Tee es eae nie Hotiaa ad
148 sons of alumni; two less than the all-time record of 150 Wee Otis Wilson, Jr Went ayes Otis W REN 4

wo the 1947-48 session. In listing sons of alumni in the ever Sy Se Ce ee ee, : ' : See
oe the has always been at least one, he a cane hese Humphris, Curtis Carlyle, Jr............. Curtis C. Humphris, °17
hose names were omitted. We hope that no omis- eee Richard Washburn, Jr......... Richard Ww. Flynson, be
oe ce Barred in.the following list, if so, we are sorry and rwin, FOhel -Prestou, : [Bie sh teentee John Preston Irwin, ‘09
sion ha: ii tet us have the «nformation. Thé classes repre- James, Robert Bleakley, EELS. coeadenvedgaketeaband echt R. B. James, ’22
hope you ba ma NE. 2 2’ wa . Joel, Robert Vinacoeul...............ccccceccsecesseseeseersesseeees L. S. Joel, ’22
ented by alumn! fathers cover a long period, beginning with Tohnadn,- TAiciud “edward 1 sick C. Jol 9
S ee. st aay ohnson, L S Edward... vucius C. Johnson,
1893 and ending with Sok Jones, Henry Winkelman, Jr... Henry W. Jones, ’24

Son | ater < Kaylor, Howard Slagen...............scssssssseees Omer T. Kaylor, ’11

Allen, Max TAVIS, J¥eccssccssssssesereenseescnes eee Y. Allen, 23 Kaylor; Omer Thomas) Jr inisas..cc..ccssinsecese Omer T. Kaylor, 11
Bagley, THOMAS OWE. rerreceerererserereessers Soars F. Bagley, 07 Kime, Robert Wilburforce................08 Robert S. Kime, 716
Baler, Reid Evans.......---sssecrsseerrseessssensssersees Henry S. Baker, 2 King, William Courtney, Jre.s W. Courtney King, °19
Ballard, Emmett J eSS€....--ssssese Sherman Hart Ballard, "21 Kirkpatrick, Thomas Sydnor, Jr............ T. S. Kirkpatrick, °13
Ballard, Wade Hampton... seeeeeeenees Sherman Hart Ballard, 21 Kreienbaum, Vernon Joseph, Jr............. V. J. Kreienbaum, ’25
Barker, Elbridge Gerry, DV .oeeeeseeseeeeeenees Elbridge G. Barker, 20 Kupfer, William Crocket...............sccccscesees *Charles Kupfer, °19
Barker, Henry McKinney seseeeeeeeeeeeeeeneneey Henry N. Barker, ‘14 Latture, William Edward.................0 Rupert N. Latture, °15
Barron, William Framkclini,  Jitisssssesccstcaecogretes W. F. Barron, ‘19 Lee, Robert Edward, IV............ *Dr. George Bolling Lee, ’93
Beall, William Upton.......-.ersrsersersersssrsessrererseed Allein Beall, “18 Lemon, Charles Richard... E. B. Lemon, ’11
Bear, James Caddall.....ssssssseesssssesereenserenee Roger J. Bear, 14 Lewis, Mitchell Ives.................ccccccccccseees *Reuben A. Lewis, °16
Bear, Roger Jones, Ji...sssesssseesessssssenserennenenes Roger J. Bear, ‘l4 LOWS 2 PRG eg FT acpi ccssne sth seeromahesaetodsap-bse 040s epee Frank Love, ’21
Bell, Briatr.......s--sesssssessessesseeneentensencensassenensensensensens *Brian Bell, ‘ll McCain, Charles Howard, Jr.......Charles Howard McCain, '20
Berryman, John Robert sail anee Uaniuueilas Robert Lee Berryman, 23 McClintock, Everett Miller............ Oliver W. McClintock, ’23
Bishop, Wallace Kingsley ...osesssseersseeesees sececeseceeees J. Bb. Hoke, 21 McClintock, Fletcher Talley......Wm. Ewing McClintock, °18
Bitzer, Emory West, J Te ceeeeeeeeseeseeeees mory \W est Bitzer, ‘07 McCoy, John Walkup...............sccssseveseees Kenton H. McCoy, 715
Brown, Wesley Gregory seeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereneees edward Kk. Brown, I McDonald, Richard Reese... *O. L. McDonald, °12
Burton, Richard Coleman..........0 sossesen *W. R. Burton, 717 McKay, Herbert Gifford.............ccccsssesssecsseee *K. I. McKay, 04
Campbell, Edmund Douglas, JT. .0e. Edmund D, Campbell, ‘18 McMurran, Richard Epes................ *Lewis A. McMurran, ’07
Campbell, Thornton Wilson siiansotbhes *Malcolm D. Campbell, 05 McKee, Madison Dryden, Jru........M. D. McKee, ’10
Carmichael, John Craigiidiysscss. H. St. G. T. Carmichael, 99 McNeer, Selden Spessard, Jr... Selden S. McNeer, 16
Clarke, Ernest H O@e.....<cissnieepagntuavctamasttnes Oldham Clarke, ’28 Mahood, Wilson Straley.............0 *W. Straley Mahood, ’18
Coco, Philo, Jr sevcoesconscasttanestaveliniees Uubae eupr aN eesiaiinae Philo Coco, ‘21 Malone, Kirby West............cscscscessesssee Bayard L. Malone, ’24
Collins, Lewis Preston, Rela Brdiachs, Sexewedicncd ovis ine P. Collins, Lk 20 Manning, Preston Cocke, Jr er sae Preston c.. Manning, 25
Cook, Grafton Hopkins, Jf........ccsesceeeeseeeeeees Gr Fh aCoelke "Sl: “Mise dat ls Faia... cateacthhaghselset.: stains Edward Matz, °25
Cosby, William Randolph, I1............ W. Randolph Cosby, '26 Maynard, William H., Jr... William H. Maynard, ’26
Coyle, George Lacy, Jo esssessseecneeessessseessess GOOPKE L... Coyle,*1Z: . Miller, John: Maurice, J ric cii...:.....sasccstcoce J. Maurice Miller, °15
Daughtrey, Floyd Jerome, Jr Yivevemanied Floyd J. Daughtrey, "22 9 Mohler, Alexander, II...........00...... Byron Chauncey Mohler, ’25
Davenport, Randolph Blevins................ *R. B. Davenport, "24. Moyler, James Edward, Jr............. James Edward Moyler, ’21
Davis, Beverly Andrew, EEE iicl ecsede ects Ak Davis, ae 20 Murphy, Paul Joseph Bruno, Jr........... Paul J. B. Murphy, ’14
Dawkins, Oliver Cromwell, DEL ceseverseg ©..©...Dawking,Je., 27" “Oant; TOwABOUG:..- ik o.css castes scssiastncnaens William Henry Oast, °15
Devine, Patrick Campbell i daly Cadbaaniicnncha inbede Dr. C. J. Devine, 716 Oast, William Henry, Jr...............00000 William Henry Oast, ’15
Dow, James Leslie «coc tdeianhingesaadubadeensharhs Robert Cc Dow, "12. ~=Parker, Robert Logan................ William Franklin Parker, ’20
Sear mewerd ae sonal i s iaaandccd taal heey Jean Ellis, ’23 Paxton, Matthew White, IIL........ Matthew W. Paxton, II, 718
sngleby, Thomas Joseph, Jr. s-sssesseeesen ‘. J. Engleby, °20
Eristoff, George Andrew......Dimitri G. Sidamon-Eristoff, ’25
Fain, memes Rhea, JY.a..iiunatie asian James R. Fain, °19
Farrar, James DuBolté.cuicncneeeians J. M. Farrar, Jr., 14
wemers, Stanford Lee, Jr...........cccecoessess Stanford L. Fellers, Lop
Forman, Benno Marcuse....ssssscsssssseecessneee Isadore coon
French, W yatt, Jr.:.\:ccichcapeneho mention Wyatt French, ‘2
Fritchie, Gus Alexander, Ji... Gus A. Fritchie, °19
— Fontaine Johmnson........cccceeeeeeees Frank J. Gilliam, °17
omaha Charles Sis Jl aeiateadetees iagtbveasche Charles S. Glasgow, ‘09
gg Francis Thomas, II............ Charles S. Glasgow, 09
> ass, Thomas R eakigts. icigusctcgsinistccnives Carter Glass, Jr. °13
meee Claiborne Watts, TitiacnKaiin C. W. Gooch, Jr., 715
em, Philip M OFT OR iincictsssotearcarn *William D. Gresham, *99
er. Charles Niles, ITT........ C. Niles Grosvenor, Jr., °12
aay PETJATUM. soe ssessecsesssersesseesseseesnensennes *Benjamin Haden, °13
gee James Walliagn, =F ric ciccci.tcate: James W. Harman, ‘04
oe William Camp belhicicnssvijete ic Dr. Hugh J. Hagan, °10
aa. me l.chols AICHE: FES adie EK. A. Hansbarger, ’20
eyo Seybert, FR i Ah an John Seybert Hansel, °17
Hin r eon Wa ih evkos evesionihevertotacdrevar uiNe Leon W. Harris, °13 |

Renny Kine Te. iahliketicbaoun Henry K. Hill, ’25 Fraternity Rushing As Usual

rs LIBRARY OF
WASHINGTON & LEZ UNIVERSITY
LRG T OM. YA. Shee

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Students Scramble for Books

 

Son Father
uneree FL ernere Caie DE Tosiccisscesiaocpisioosncest Herbert G. Peters,
ee SURE OP OR FU PTs, 6b licaliincondusde sccnicntccay eed Isadore Pizitz,
Sam | AIR OO OO a a sond bec Lamar Polk,
Pruitt, James Kennedy...................0. Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt,
Pentt,: Richard Taylor......cii..ccsccc. Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt,
a PR py ae ge oe Junius W. Pulley,
Raftery, John Champe.................c.ce000 William C. Raftery,
Riddick, Walter Garrett, Jr.................. Walter G. Riddick,
TIE io ssh atiiatnestiiibtig post caste Benjamin Haines Rigg,
Robbins, Edmund Carpentet................ *Joseph C. Robbins,
Deen Fea cis. se nchseats <b ibncantns Augustus Robbins, Jr.,
Rockwell, William James Kenneth........ Paul A. Rockwell,
Rushton, Francis Edwards.................... J. Frank Rushton,
Schneider, Thomas Erwin, Jr..............000 T. E. Schneider,
Re SE COTO Me oe sachs nssacecadccssevice Tessie Elwood H. Seal,
Shropshire, Cameron Edward, Jr............. C. E. Shropshire,
Silverstein, Robert Fischert..................0..... *Sam_ Silverstein,
ST STE a *Sam Silverstein,
Smith, Douglas McGrudet...................0068 Herbert G. Smith,
OUR Pe SSREPITIONS Jf ac6c0cc..ccaesocscetaccecnsdeces Ray S. Smith,
Snyder, Clovis Marene................00000 Harry Edgar Snyder,
SRS ERIE OPE 8, 6s ins sii Sio Sein entivons *Dr. Clifford Sperow,
Stewart, Dean Bradley, Jr................sscccceee Dean B. Stewart,
Strickler, John Glenwood.............ccccceeeees John O. Strickler,
Strother, William Fuqua.................... John Fuqua Strother,
Sutherland, Horace Fulton............ *Horace F. Sutherland,
Townsend, William Howard........ Fred DuPre Townsend,
PSIG: SEOTI “LIVON, | UL. < si Scicoees sctdadadeepoapcacecoeet- J. D. Trimble,
Trotter, William Yates, Jr............... William Yates Trotter,
Trundle, James Thomias................c00000004 A. Dawson Trundle,
Turner, Norfleet Ragland............................ Norfleet Turner,
Vicars, Joseph McFarland............ Marshall Walker Vicars,
Wall, Ashley Stainback............................000. *Hiram P. Wall,
Warner, John William... *Dr. John W. Warner,
Wash, Thomas Atwood....ccccccccccsceee Dr. Atwood M. Wash,
White, James Jones.................. Dr. Thomas Preston White,
WEHipeeeeetat SCE y, « Uisiiccsdidasckevckesciass Millar B. White,
White, William Gibsom...........................000. Millar B. White,
Whittle, Randolph Gordon, Jr... R. G. Whittle,
Whittle, Stafford Gorman, IITI............ Kennon C. Whittle,
Williams, Donald Kingsley................ John Leslie Williams,
Wilidteein. PROrisel, J) Tisiscascivctccletsiticiel Adrian Williamson,
Winborne, Thomas Packard................ Roger M. Winborne,
Wood, James Arthur, Jr..................... James Arthur Wood,

"06
"18
27
21
"17
’20
1S
27
04
24
"23
"10
03
15
17
25
25
24
‘14
hy
KO
‘11
24

[ 14 |

Weooedter. , brace Fe fren. So Bruce F. Woodruff, *]
Yankee;-Richard- M.,;° Jf. visi...ciecc dacs Richard M. Yankee, ’”
Yeilding, Newman Manley, Jr......... Newman M. Yeilding, ’
Youur, -lonn rienry, FUT s cscs ccteus. John H. Young, ’”

* Deceased

Miller for Governor

Francis Pickens Miller, A.B., °14, Phi Beta Kappa, Ph
Gamma Delta, announced his candidacy for the Democratie
nomination for Governor of Virginia subject to the Deme
cratic primary in August, 1949, on July 27, 1948. After grady
ation here he received the B.A. degree in 1921 and M.A, j
1923 from Oxford University, England, which he attendee
as a Rhodes Scholar. In World War I he enlisted in the 5¢
Field Artillery of the First Division, AEF and was at the
front in France in November, 1917, with the first America
troops, finishing that service as a first lieutenant. In Worle
War II he was overseas in the army for nearly three years
being promoted to full colonel by General Eisenhower while
serving on the latter’s staff at G-2, SHEAF. After VE Da
he was on duty for nearly a year as an intelligence officer a
Military Government Headquarters (Berlin).

Prior to World War II Miller was Organization Directo
of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York City, being
responsible for its activities across the country. This Counei
was organized by Col. House and Gen. Tasker Bliss after
World War I in order to encourage serious study of U.S.
foreign policy. During 1938-1941 he represented Fairfs
County in the House of Delegates and was also a membe
of the Virginia Advisory Legislative Council.

For most of his life Miller has been an executive. As
soldier, an administrator and a state legislator he combine
an exceptional experience in public affairs with wide kno
ledge of the problems of our time.

Serving as commanding officer of the 23rd Composit
Group, Organized Reserve, he is vice-president of the Re
serve Officers’ Association, Department of Virginia; a mem
ber of the American Legion and of the Veterans of Foreigt
Wars. His military awards include; Legion of Merit with
Oak Leaf Cluster, Order of the British Empire, Legion o
Honor (France)—degree of Chevalier, Order of Leopold
with Palm (Belgium)—degree of Officer, Croix de Guerr
with two Palms (France) and Croix de Guerre with Palm
(Belgium).

His home is in Charlottesville, Virginia.

 

  
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
   

 

STUDENT BICENTENNIAL PUBLICATION

Washington and Lee University Bulletin, Vol. XLVII
No. 4, The Student Bicentennial Publication, recently maileé
to all alumni and friends of the University, is unique in it
approach. Publications heretofore issued from the Bice
tennial Office have had consistent dignity and manifest th
careful planning that reflects the highest credit on those fr
sponsible for the general design. This booklet, planned ane
executed by the students as their contribution to the Bice
tennial year, is about as far removed as anything could b
from the usual appeal to alumni and patrons. Famous cartoof
ists from all over the country responded cordially to the if
vitation sent out by the editorial staff and sent in black an
white sketches that have been reproduced faithfully an
most divertingly. Coming as it does from the student body
there is no loss of “dignity” in this “comic book,” which 1
cludes so many wise observations by cartoonists that it
eloquent in a distinctive fashion. J. Arthur Wood, Jr., Edite
of the publication, is the son of J. Arthur Wood, LL.B., °24

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

————

 

Charlie Holt Makes a First Down

 

Those newcomers still look good. And the holdovers look
eood. It’s a smart team, a well-coached team. They just didn't
eet off to a good start.

Game by game here is how the season has gone so far:

Furman: The “Hurricane” boys from Greenville, South
Carolina, perennially tough openers, came from behind in the
waning minutes of the last quarter to dump the Generals
‘1 their home-game debut 10-7.

After Charlie Harrington had bounded over the line for a
W. and L. touchdown in the second period, and Walt Michaels
added an extra-point kick, easy money gambled on the Gen-
erals to coast to victory over Furman, which had only been
able to garner a three-point field goal. But a W. and L. fumble
near the Generals’ goal line donated a scoring cinch to Fur-
man’s eleven, which went across to tally and win the battle
by the field-goal margin.

Ohio University: Playing for the first time under lights,
Washington and Lee controlled the outcome of their second
game from the start. The Generals marched up and down the
field all evening, though they only scored twice. Harrington
again sparked the W. and L. squad, with a brilliant cross-
field jaunt to the Ohio 3-yard line in the third period which
set up Ray Leister’s right-end run for the score. Again in
the final quarter Harrington scored, sweeping Ohio’s left end
trom the seven yard line.

Georgia Tech: Nobody really expected Washington and
Lee to knock off Georgia Tech, class of the Southeastern
Conference, when the Generals traveled to Atlanta October
*. But people were amazed to see the scrap W. and L. made
of the affair. Atlanta’s newspaper and radio men were agog
at the Generals’ unexpected offensive power, even though
they dropped the game 27-0.

Virginia: Athletic Director R. A. (Cap'n Dick) Smith, who
has watched many football teams in action at Washington
eee, ering the past three decades, lays blame for the

ais ignominious Homecoming Day deteat on pre-
woe tension. Tension built-up weeks in advance of the
ee, conerals, many of whom reported they'd had no
ao Secch ee cecobeee Peta ey ee
eas. Apter! SS ; os a 7 € % 1emse Si into | a Soonee
Re or v7 a : ctober 16. en thousand fans watched
ver them. anc Ata s potent Cavaliers march around them,
, an irough them to a smashing 41-6 victory. Only

in the last quarter did Washington and Lee display any of-
fensive power, when Harrington bucked across from Vir-
ginia’s l-yard stripe, after quarterbacks Mike Boyda and Ray
Leister fired a series of passes to put W. and L. in scoring
position.

West Virginia: With the sluggishness out of their col-
lective systems, W. and L.’s gridmen made their annual trek
to Charleston October 23 and gave West Virginia’s classy
eleven a mighty scare before succumbing 14-7.

WVU let at halftime 14-7 and were unable to tally again
after intermission, while Washington and Lee came within a
hair’s breadth of knotting the score. Mike Boyda’s pass to Vic
Marler racing downfield within easy reach of the end zone
sailed slightly high of its target.

Pennsylvania: The Quakers from University of Pennsyl-
vania were out to prove their rating as the class of the nation
when Washington and Lee met them in Philadelphia October
30. They proved their point all right, dropping the Generals
40-7.

Fullback Walt Michaels saved W. and L. from a white-
washing in the fourth quarter as he traveled ten yards for a
touchdown and then added the extra point.

V.P.I.: Back in their own class, Washington and Lee’s
Gridmen showed plenty of form in smacking Virginia Tech
with a 14-7 defeat at Lynchburg November 6. After the
Gobblers had jumped ahead early in the fray, W. and L.’s
passing duet—Mike Boyda and Ray Leister—opened the throt-
tle and put the Generals in scoring territory just before the
first-half ended. Leister rounded his right end for the touch-
down and Walt Michaels added the point. Washington and
Lee broke the 7-7 deadlock just one play before the final
whistle, as Brian Bell plunged across for a touchdown cap-
ping a 50-yard drive. Michael’s extra-point boot was good
again to give W. and L. the 14-7 decision.

Against Davidson College November 13, Washington and
Lee notched another victory by the margin of one blocked
extra-point attempt.

The Generals won 21-20, thanks to tackle Harry Gowens,
who stormed the Davidson line to spoil a point-after-touch-
down boot after the Wildcats had scored late in the second
period.

All of Washington and Lee’s extra-point attempts were
good, following touchdowns by Harrington (on a pass from
Mike Boyda), Lukens (pass from Boyda), and Bell.

 

 

s

‘

Crowd Leaving the Game

[19 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

 

1904

James B. Akers is chief
engineer of the Southern
Railway System and_ has
been in the employ of that
property in various engineer-
ing and administrative po-

Let us remind you again that the material from which
these notes was compiled consists of letters received by
the class agents during last spring and summer and a6
from questionnaires returned by alumni during that
period. If the notes are not up-to-date, we would ap-
preciate any further information you can let us have. It

self. He says he has been
thinking of retiring but
would not know what to do
if he did, so thinks he might
well keep on working.
Address: Pendroy, Montana.

A. W. Rutan is a mem-

 

 

 

: - re Ss, . . . . . " -
ee for 43 year that is especially important, now that an alumni directory ber of the firm of Rutan and
his talents were recognized . : ° os ; 5 batt. Sac a
4s is being compiled, for publication during the Bicen- Tucker, Attorneys-at-Law,
at an early stage of his ; Tk “Nee oe
a eons E tcnnial year, that you keep us posted as to changes of Suite 609, First National
career is indicated by his ad- ; creas as -
abies address, occupation, etc. Bank Building, Santa Ana,
vancement to district en- . »
; California.
gineer maintenance of way 1907

only seven years after he en-

tered the service. The wisdom of this choice is demonstrated
by his appointment to successive positions of increasing re-
sponsibility in subsequent years. He is President of the Amert-
can Railway Engineering Association. Residence address:
3415 Fulton Street, N. W., Washington 7, D.C.

W. Neal Grubb is revising and editing manuscripts for
publication at Pine Camp Hospital, Richmond 22, Virginia.
Mr. Grubb took his A.B. degree here in 1904 and M.A. in
1905, and served as student instructor in English in 1904-
1905 and 1907-1908. He did graduate work at the Universities
of Pennsylvania, Western Reserve, Johns-Hopkins and Mc-
Gill, Montreal, Canada, and was a Fellow in Economics at
the University of Chicago in 1908-1909.

1905

Basil Manly is an economist and business executive. Dur-
ing World War I he served with Ex-President William How-
ard Taft as Joint Chairman of the National War Labor
Board; was with the Federal Power Commission as mem-
ber, 1933-1945; Vice-Chairman, 1933-1936, 1942-1943, and
Chairman in 1944-1945. He is now Vice-President and Di-
rector of Southern Natural Gas Company, with offices at 605
Southern Building, Washington 5, D.C.

Judge Walter G. Riddick is Federal Judge of the Kighth
Circuit Court of Appeals, composed of the states of Arkansas,
Nevada, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North
Dakota and South Dakota. His son, Walter G.,
Jr., is now a student at Washington and Lee.
Residence: 2416 Wolfe, Little Rock, Arkansas.

1906

Brent E. Clark is a consulting engineer and
owner and operator of the James Hotel, Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma. He was responsible for
the first Oklahoma State Highway Specifica-
tions and State Highway System to be ap-
proved by the Federal Government in 1921.

Dr. F. R. Crawford served as a Medical
missionary in China from 1914 to 1932. Since
that time he has been practicing surgery in
Farmville, Virginia.

   

Ira T. Ritenour is still farming his 960
acres of land and doing most of the work him-

 

 

Isaac Paul Gassman is a manufacturing executive and at-
torney. He has been connected with the Arcade Manufactur-
ing Company—now a division of Rockwell Manufacturing
Company—since late 1918. His sons, Loyal Paul and George
Ladd, are alumni of Washington and Lee. Address: 1170 West
Stephenson Street, Freeport, Illinois.

Charles Campbell Crockett took his A.B. degree at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1907, and LL.B. in 1913. Since that time he
has been practicing law in Dublin, Georgia.

1908

John M. Bierer is a Director, Vice-President and Factory
Manager of Boston Woven Hose and Rubber Company, P.O.
Box 1071, Boston 3, Massachusetts. He is the author of many
articles and pamphlets in connection with rubber develop-
ments and applications.

Earle K. Paxton, professor of mathematics at Washington
and Lee from 1920 to 1946, is now professor of physics at Vir-
ginia Military Institute. Address: 602 South Main Street, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Horace W. Phillips has been with “lumber and its vicis-
situdes” since graduation here. He was elected a member of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Board of Trustees at Finals
last year. His home is in Hardeeville, South Carolina.

J. C. Carpenter, Jr., is president of the
First National Bank of Clifton Forge, Virginia,
director of Virginia Electric and Power Com-
pany and Clifton Forge Wholesale Grocery
Company. Address: Box 553, Clifton Forge,
Virginia.

Alan Porter Lee is president and princi-
pal engineer of Alan Porter Lee, Inc., 150
Broadway, New York 1, New York.

| Donald P. Boyer has been with the Spencer
LK | Turbine Company since 1924. At present he
Ail | is teaching drafting at Virginia Mechanics In-
eae stitute, Richmond 19, Virginia.
Buia KS
a eC] 7 Alonzo B. McMullen is a practicing at-
(—Prinls Wa torney and citrus grower, with offices in the

first National Bank Building, Tampa, Florida.
He served as City Attorney of Tampa, 1931-43.

SUN Hays

 

a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——
1909

Crowell iz Dawkins is in the general contracting busi-
specializing in industrial and utility lines. He has had
struction company since 1913. Address: 420 South
Tampa 6, Florida.

ness;
his own CO!
Rome Avenue,

1910

Joseph R. Blackburn is an engineer with the West Virginia
Department of Mines, Oil and Gas Division, with offices in
. West Virginia State Capitol, Room 34, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Philip W. Murray is a member of the law firm of Murray
ad Ford, First National Bank Building, Newport News, Vir-
: He has been practicing law continuously in Newport

yinia. ; : oan . J
5 except for term of service in World War I.

News,
Lester B. Dutrow is City Manager of Front Royal, Vir-
ginia.

Samuel Gordon North is practicing law in San Diego,
California, with offices at 601-4 Broadway Building.

Joseph Patrick McCarron has practiced law in Lynchburg,
Virginia, since graduation and was appointed Judge of the
Municipal Court for the City of Lynchburg in March 1926,
which office he has held since that time. Address: Peoples
National Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

1911

Tobias Cleveland Phillips is practicing law with offices at
50-52 Franklin Street, Annapolis, Maryland.

C. W. Tharpe is a member of the firm of Hardie and Cau-
die, Men’s Wear, 809 Market Street, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
He has served three terms as President of the Retail Credit
Men’s Association.

Lewis G. Cooper is practicing law in the Edwards Build-
ing, Greenville, North Carolina. He served as Judge of the
County Court of Pitt County from 1921-1925.

Donald T. Stant has practiced law continuously in Bristol
Virginia, since graduation. He has been Commonwealth's At-
torney of Bristol for two terms of four years each. Address:
Reynolds Arcade Building, Bristol, Virginia.

1912

Arlos J. Harbert is serving the last year of his fourth four
year term as Judge of the Criminal Court of Harrison Coun-
ty, Clarksburg, West Virginia. He is a candidate for reelection.

Tom Glasgow is president of the re-organized Glasgow
Supply Company, distributors of home and auto supplies. He
and his wife were in Lexington for the Glasgow-Crittenden
wedding in August.

_ Hannibal E. Potter has been in the general practice of law
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, since 1923. He graduated here
in 1912 and after service in World War I, took a law degree
‘rom the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Address:
604 Pennsylvania Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

" James E. Weatherford received his M.D. degree from
e ‘“rson Medical College in 1915 and is practicing his pro-
€ssion at 2239 East Colfax Avenue, Denver, Colorado.

James Somerville paid a short visit to Lexington in Au-

gust. He is now serving as Commercial Attache for the State
Department in Teheran, Iran. He was Commercial Attache
in the American Embassy in London for many years previous
to this assignment.

Robert C. Dow is General Counsel for Farm Credit Ad-
ministration, Wichita, Kansas. In his present employment he
serves as General Counsel of Federal Land Bank, Federal
Intermediate Credit Bank, Production Credit Corporation and
Wichita Bank for Co-Operatives for States of Kansas, Colo-
rado, Oklahoma and New Mexico. His son, is now a senior
in the Washington and Lee Law School.

1913

Charles Evant Hunter is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Shenandoah Life Building. He is
City Attorney for Roanoke City.

Junius W. Pulley has been Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Southampton County, Courtland, Virginia, since 1934. He has
practiced law in Courtland continuously since graduation.

Ryland G. Craft, Gate City, Virginia, has many business
interests, being connected as partner or owner of Gate City
Motor Company and Craft Transportation Company of Gate
City, and Craft Motors, Inc., of Kingsport, Tennessee. He is
also a banker and farmer and is serving his second term as
member of the House of Delegates of Virginia.

1914

William T. Lovins is Judge of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of West Virginia. He is Chairman of the Judicial Cir-
cuit of West Virginia, serving as such for the past five and a
half years. Address: State Capitol, Charleston 5, West Vir-
ginia.

Fred M. Davis is President and Manager of Davis, Childs
& Company, Insurance Agency. His offices are in the Krise
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Edward M. Craig is Civil Engineer, City of New York. Af-
ter graduation from Washington and Lee he received an A.B.
from Yale in 1916; B.S. from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1921, and M.C.E. from Johns-Hopkins in 1926,
Home address: 3515 78th Street, Jackson Heights, New York.

Alex M. Hitz is practicing law with offices in Citizens &
Southern Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He is also serving as
Registrar of the Diocese of Atlanta of the Episcopal Church
and as Judge-Advocate of the Department of Georgia of the
American Legion.

1915

Judge Taylor H. Stukes is now in his eighth year of ser-
vice as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of South Caro-
lina. His home is in Manning, South Carolina.

Walter C. Preston, after a number of years in chemical re-
search with Proctor and Gamble Company, has now switched
to patent work with the same organization. Address: 3901
Clifton Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Evan McCord, after living in Texas for twenty years, has
been practicing law in Versailles, Kentucky, since 1939.

J. Carl Fisher, for the past five years, has been Manager
of the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company.
His two daughters have graduated at Randolph Macon Col-
lege, one in 1946 and the other this year, both being Phi Beta

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Kappas. Address: 208 Witherspoon Road, Baltimore 12,

Maryland.

Colonel Frank B. Hayne paid a flying visit to the campus
during the summer. After thirty years U.S. Army Service, he
is now retired and living at Virginia Beach, Virginia.

W. F. Crist is in general insurance business and electrical
appliances, Craigsville, Virginia.

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes has his offices at 701 Professional
Building, Richmond, Virginia. He is now professor of Dermo-
tology and Syphilology at the Medical College of Virginia,
Richmond, Virginia.

N. B. Adams is teaching Spanish at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He has published
several books and written many articles and book reviews
in learned journals.

Rev. James E. Bear is head of the Biblical Department
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

1916

Robert A. Wellons has practiced law in Charlotte, North
Carolina, since the end of World War I. He is also in real
estate development, building, etc., and owns and operates a
ladies full-fashioned hosiery mill. Address: 2944 St. Andrews
Lane, Charlotte, North Carolina.

M. Cecil Horner is a Life Underwriter with offices in the
Bank of Commerce Building, Morristown, Tennessee.

Elwood H. Seal is practicing law in Washington, D.C.,
with offices at 726 Jackson Place, N.W.

1917

James A. Lee, managing editor of Chemical Engineering,
a McGraw-Hill publication, was elected president of the Elec-
trochemical Society at an annual business meeting on April
16, 1948, at the Deshler-Wallick Hotel in Columbus, Ohio. He
has been with McGraw-Hill for 20 years. Address: 423 North
Walnut Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

William J. Cox, after having served as highway commis-
sioner of Connecticut under four administrations, declined
reappointment in July, 1947, has moved back to Virginia and
is living in Leesburg. He was president of the Connecticut
Section of the American Society of Civil Engineers and an
honorary member of the Connecticut Society of Civil En-
gineers. The latter society also, last year, awarded him its
prize for the best paper published in its proceedings during
the year. Address: P. O. Box 191, Leesburg, Virginia.

Jackson R. Collins is in the general practice of law at 90
Broad Street, New York 4, New York.

Colonel C. R. Stribling is President and Superintendent of
Missouri Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri, where he has
been since 1920.

Robert B. McDougle has been practicing law at-Parkers-
burg, West Virginia, since 1920. His offices are in the Citizens
Bank Building. He writes that the most important thing that
has happened to him in the past year is that he is now the
grandfather of a bouncing boy whose name is Robert Mc-

Dougle Dils.

Homer A. Jones has been with the Washington Trust and
Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia, since leaving Washington and

[ 22 |

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

Lee, starting as Bookkeeper, then Assistant Cashier, Cashie
and now Executive Vice-President. His son, Homer A., Jr,

is an LL.B. of 1942.

A. G. Paxton is in the cotton shipping business as A. G
Paxton Co., Greenville, Mississippi. He is serving as a mem
ber of the City Council of the City of Greenville; is Presiden
of the Southern Cotton Shippers Association, an organizatior
composed of shippers operating in the Middle South; and ip
addition has been nominated for the rank of Major Genera
and assigned to the command of the 31st Infantry Division.

1918

Murray C. Shoun is with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenne
& Bean, Investment Brokers, 25 North Pryor Street, P.O
Box 1102, Atlanta 1, Georgia.

E. V. Bowyer is Commercial Manager of the Roanoke Gas
Company, having been in the public utility business for ove
22 years. Address: 2614 Jefferson Street, Roanoke, Virginiz

John G. Ramey is in the wholesale fresh fruit and vege
table business at 103-9 East First Street, Rome, Georgia.

Francis H. Styles is with the American Foreign Service
Office, American Consulate General, Shanghai, China. Hi
home in this country is at Falls Church, Virginia.

James Lewis Howe, Jr., taught chemistry in China from
1921 to 1935. Since 1936 he has been a chemist with the Ar
thus H. Thomas Company, 230 South 7th Street, Philadel
phia, Pennsylvania.

1919

James R. Fain is president of The City National Bank ¢
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and director Winston-Salem
Building and Loan Association. His son James R. Jr., is noy
a student at Washington and Lee.

Theodore H. Evans is now Rector of St. Paul’s Memoria
Church, Charlottesville, Virginia. He received the honora
degree of D.D. from Washington and Lee in 1941. |

W. Roy Campbell went to Huntington, West Virginia i
1920 and became connected with Hans Watts Realty Com
pany. He is now assistant treasurer of the company and af
officer in all of its holding companies. Home address: 1114
10th Street, Huntington, West Virginia.

James Edward Key is Secretary and Manager, Piedmon
Mills, Inc., (flour manufacturers) Horsford Road and Jef
ferson Streets, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Leonard T. Brown, after 30 years, is still in the wholesal
paper business. His son-in-law, Glenn Chaffer, is graduating
from Washington and Lee this year.

1920

Howard Erwin Nay of Wheeling, West Virginia, Count
Club is the first champion to win the Ohio Valley Seniors
Golf Association for the second time, on September 11, 1948
Playing over his own course in the fifth edition of the OVSG
tournament, Nay duplicated his 1945 title feat by leading his
nearest rival by a stroke with his 76. Howard is in the sho
business—Nay Shoe Company, 1309-11 Market Street, Whee
ing, West Virginia.

James W. McKown is a merchant, member of the firm 0
Wolff & McKown, furniture and floor coverings, at Box 14$
Waynesboro, Pennsylvania.

a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

———

s is in the gasoline manufacturing and general
Shreveport, Louisiana. Address: P.O. Box 208,

j. B. Atkin
. iness in
oil busines: a
Shreveport, Louisiana.

E. Kievlan is Executive Secretary, Texas Structural
5 Institute and Texas Concrete Reinforcing Institute and
2 « ; |

as een Manager of Alamo Iron Works since 1933.
jas D Ve s

1921

‘amin F. Howard served as Prosecuting Attor-
ao wrell County, 1923-1929; City Attorney, Welch,
nant 1929: fudge, Eighth Judicial Circuit of West Virginia,
1930-1936. inclusive, and Mayor of the City of Welch, 1940-
1944. After receiving his Liye from \ ashington and Lee he
did post-graduate work at the University of Michigan. Ad-
dress: McDowell National Bank Building, Welch, West Vir-
ginia.

Philo Coco began the practice of law in Marksville, Louisi-
ana, in 1924. He is President of Avoyelles Parish Bar Asso-
ciation and member of Louisiana and American Bar Asso-
ciation. His son, Philo, Jr., is a student here.

Harry B. Burt is President, Good Humor Ice Cream Com-
pany and Malt-a-Plenty, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma. He is manu-
facturing and selling supplies to ice cream manufacturers na-
tionally. He is a member of the board of directors of National
Association of Retail Ice Cream Manufacturers. Address:
1635 East 11th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Frank Love is practicing law in Fayetteville, West Vir-
ginia. He is Director, Fayetteville Federal Savings & Loan
Association and Fayetteville County National Bank.

William A. Gibbons has been in the real estate loan and
banking business since 1926. He is Assistant Cashier, Coloni-
al-American National Bank, Roanoke, Virginia.

Dr. John T. Bate received his M.D. from the University
of Virginia Medical School in 1922, after graduation here. He
is practicing surgery in Louisville, Kentucky; District Sur-
geon, Louisville and Nashville Railroad; Surgeon Monon
Railway, Pennsylvania Railroad, Pullman Co., Louisville
Street Railway, etc. He has written many articles published
in various medical journals. Address: 301 West Ormsby
Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky.

Morton L. Felsenthal is with Beau Brummel Ties, Inc., in
the division of sales promotion and selling, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1922

A. J. Lubliner is practicing law at 209-12 Law & Commerce
Building, Bluefield, West Virginia. He is Secretary-Treas-
urer, Sherry’s Drug Company, Inc., Bluefield.

_ Troy C. Musselwhite, after receiving the A.B. degree from
Washington and Lee, attended Harvard Law School and
Stetson Law School, receiving the LL.B. degree in 1925. Since
that time he has practiced law in Orlando, Florida. Address:
P.O. Box 2848. Orlando, Florida.

Z W. J. L. Patton is Assistant Comptroller, The National
wid Bank of New York. He has been with the National City
ank In various positions since 1924. Address: 55 Wall Street,
New York 15, New York.

: Guy Campbell has been in the wholesale auto parts and
9D fduipment business for the past 21 years. Address: care
“etor Supply Company, Ine., Monroe, Louisiana.

Benjamin J. Broach has been in the insurance business
ever since graduation here. He was with the American Foreign
Insurance Association of New York in Athens, Greece, and
Cairo, Egypt, from September, 1927, to October, 1942, and
with the Great American Insurance Company, New York
and Florida from 1942 to the present time. Address: 601 Smeet
Building, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

1923

Maurice Frew is Personnel Manager for four textile plants
of the Pacific Mills, Columbia, South Carolina. He married
Rose Renfro in 1927 and they have two daughters, one in the
local high school and the other a freshman at Hollins College.

Bernie H. Hampton is Pastor of the Ridgedale Methodist
Church, Chattanooga, Tennessee. He has three daughters, 19,
14 and 12, the eldest now in Huntington College, Montgom-
ery, Alabama.

J. W. C. Wright is in the warehouse business in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana. Address: 2502 Dalrymple Drive, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana.

George C. Mason, Jr., is manufacturing apparel acces-
cries. He is president of Gem-Dandy, Inc., Madison, North
Carolina.

Joseph R. Long is now a partner in the law firm of For-
dyce, White, Mayne, Williams & Hartman, 506 Olive Street,
St. Louis, Missouri. He still finds time to make use of his
motorboat and fly-rod, but says his fish cost him $5.00 a pound
and it would be cheaper to buy them in the market.

French R. McKnight is President of McKnight Veneers,
Inc., Helena, Arkansas. He and his wife were in Lexington
for a night in June en route to the graduation of their daugh-
ter at Penn Hall, Pennsylvania.

G. E. Berson, Jr., is in the wholesale dry goods business—
Berry Dry Goods Company—Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Raymond D. (Toad) Snively still has his main interest in
the family, factory and farm. He is Vice-President and Secre-
tary of The Hagerstown Leather Company, Hagerstown,
Maryland. On the farm they are breeding Angus cattle and
Hampshire sheep. He reports the birth of a granddaughter
and has a grandson ready for the class of 19060.

Frank B. Hurt is Professor of Political Science, Western
Maryland College, Westminster, Maryland. Residence ad-
dress: 89 West Green Street, Westminster, Maryland.

F. L. Sattes is Sales Manager for Belle Alkali Company,
Belle, West Virginia. He has recently completed building a
new home at 2000 Kanawha Avenue, S. E., Charleston 4,
West Virginia. He and his wife, who was Katherine Backus,
now have four children ranging in age from four to fourteen.

David Matson is now with Compania Impulsora de Em-
presas Electricas, South America. Address: Calle Bolivar 21,
Mexico, D.F.

Weldon T. Kilmon is in the construction business with
the Baltimore Asphalt Block & Tile Company, General Con-
tractors, 1320 North Monroe Street, Baltimore 17, Maryland.

Ray Jones Vice is connected with the Kentucky State De-

partment of Education. Address: New State Office Building,

Frankfort, Kentucky.

- Raymond G. Wickersham nas been pastor of the Center-

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

line Presbyterian Church, Centerline, Michigan, for the past
two years, since getting out of the Navy as a chaplain. His
family consists of four children ages 18, 16, 12 and 7. The first
two and the last are boys and the 12 year-old is a girl.

1924

Walter H. Scott is practicing law at 130 West Campbell
Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia. He has served in the Virginia
State Legislature 1932-1936; 1938-1944; 1946.

Alfred H. Griffith is practicing law, in the real estate busi-
ness and Mayor of the City of Buena Vista, Virginia.

John S. Stump, LL.B. ’24, was elected President of the
West Virginia Bar Association, meeting at the White Sulphur
Springs in August. He is the fourth of the last six presidents
of the Association who are Alumni of Washington and Lee—
Homer A. Holt, 18, Robert B. McDougal, 17 and Selden S.
McNeer, ‘16.

Frederick L. Engels is President Engels Equipment Com-
pany, Inc., Daylume Manufacturing Company, Inc., and Oris-
kany Mallable Iron Company, Inc., all of Utica, New York.
Address: 1200 Broad Street, Utica, New York.

Francis W. Plowman is Vice-President, Scott Paper Com-
pany and director in its subsidiary companies, Marmette Pa-
per Co. and Grocery Manufacturers of America. Address:
Scott Paper Company, Chester, Pennsylvania.

Henry W. Jones has been in the hardwood lumber business
ever since graduation here. In 1943 the Cathey-Williford-
Jones Company was organized. This firm operates hardwood
lumber mills at Bentonia, Mississippi, and Grenada, Mississip-
pi. He is Vice-President of Cathey-Williford-Jones Company
and partner, Williford & Jones Lumber Company, both of
Memphis, Tennessee. Address: 509 First National Bank
Building, Memphis, Tennessee.

John F. Hendon ownes the Hendon’s Parking Garages
and Service Stations, with offices at 1631 North 3rd Avenue,
Birmingham 3, Alabama.

1925

Abe Goodman is Vice-President, American Finishing
Company, Director, Memphis Cold Storage Company and
Memphis Rubber and Supply Company. Address: care of
American Finishing Company, P.O. Box 416, Memphis,
Tennessee.

Marvin F. Hummer is owner and manager W. F. Hummer
& Son, Inc., coal, fuel, hardware, paints, 802 B. Street, N. E.,
Washington 2, D.C.

William E. Brock is in the candy manufacturing business—
Brock Candy Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Dr. Herbert Pollack received his M.D. from Cornell in
1929, and Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1933.
He is Associate Physician and Chief of Metabolism Service,
Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York. Address: 45 East 66th Street,
New York, New York.

Charles L. Gaines, Jr., received the B.S. degree from Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology in 1926. He is President
of Eastport Construction Company; General Manager, East-
port Marine Construction Company; Chairman of the Board
Evergreen Manufacturing Company, and President, Cham-
pion Lumber Company. Address: care of Shook & Fletcher
Supply Company, Box 2631, Birmingham, Alabama.

William A. McRitchie practiced law in Miami, Florida,
following graduation until becoming associated with Guaranty
Trust Company of New York, November, 1928. He is now
Trust Officer with the above company. Address: care of
Guaranty Trust Company, of New York, 140 Broadway, New
York 15, New York.

D. O. Mitchell practiced law in Clarksburg, West Virginia,
until June, 1926, when he moved to Indianapolis, where he is
now engaged in the general practice of law. Address; 627
North Pennsylvania Street, Indianapolis 4. Indiana.

George S. Wilson, Jr., is President of the Kentucky State
Bar Association. His home is in Owensboro, Kentucky.

1926

G. Fred Switzer was unanimously elected Democratic
National Committeeman at the Virginia State Democratic
Convention held in Richmond, July 2 and 3, for a four year
term. He is President of the Harrisonburg, Virginia, Tele-
phone Company.

Eugene A. Nabors received the LL.B. degree from Yale
in 1928 and J.S.D. in 1932. He is now professor of law, Tu-
lane College of Law, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisi-
ana.

Frederick W. Dismuke is Secretary, J. T. Knight & Son,
Inc., Columbus, Georgia. Home address: Midland, Georgia.

Dr. Louis E. Wice received his M.D. from the Medical
College of Virginia in 1926. He has been in private practice
of internal medicine since 1934 with the exception of service
in the Army Medical Corps from September, 1942, to Oc-
tober, 1946. Address: 920 St. Paul Street, Baltimore 2, Mary-
land.

Charles Waller Mathews is Plant Manager, Quartzite
Mines, Box 2152 Park Station, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Jehn T. Martin is a Market Analyst with the DuPont
Company. Address: Room 13067, DuPont Building, Wil-
mington 98, Delaware.

Edward Matz is with the Kurly Kate Corporation, manu-
facturers of metal sponges, with factories in Chicago and
Toronto, Canada. His son, Eddie, Jr., is a freshman at Wash-
ington and Lee this fall. Address: 2215 South Michigan
Avenue, Chicago 16, Illinois.

Judge William Hill Brown is practicing law in Manassas,
Virginia. He served as Commonwealths Attorney of Prince
William County, Virginia, from 1938 to 1944.

Earle A. Cadmus has been engaged in the general prac-
tice of law in Portsmouth, Virginia, since 1926. He served as
a member of the Virginia General Assembly 1928-30-32 and
special session in 1933. Address: 303 New Kirn Building,
Portsmouth, Virginia.

1927

Rhea Whitley is practicing law with offices in the Boyd
Building, Delray Beach, Florida.

Thomas Augustus Graves served two years as County At-
torney, County Judge four terms, and has been in private
practice since 1940. His offices are in the Graves Building,
Cuero, Texas.

F. Bruce Jackson is sales manager for Southwestern Creo-
soting Company, Box 935, Muskogee, Oklahoma,

| 24 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1928

Gerald Horine is still with the Lincoln-Mercury Devision
of Ford Motor Company as Business Manager of the Wash-
-,oton District, covering most of Maryland, Virginia, West
einia, District of Columbia and North Carolina. Address:
Apartment 307, 2 West Walnut Street, Alexandria, Virginia.

Russell Wood Jordon, Jr., is Vice-President and Title Of-
ficer with the Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation, 1111 East
Main Street, Richmond, Virginia.

Virgil A. Fisher has been in the oil business since gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee. Address: 512 City National
Bank Building, Wichita Falls, Texas.

Dr. John G. McClure received his M.D. degree from Tu-
lane in 1932. He is practicing his profession in Welsh, Louisi-

ana.

J. W. Alderson is a farmer, merchant and banker, Forrest
City, Arkansas.

H. Reed Johnston is a member of the firm of Johnston &
Lunger, Stock Brokers, Room 1900 One Wal: Street, New
York, New York.

1929

Robert S. Bacon is Vice-President of the First National
Bank of Mobile. His home is at 1904 Government Street, Mo-
bile, Alabama.

John A. Tolley received the degree of D.D.S. from the
Medical College of Virginia in 1930 and is practicing his pro-
fession at 1726 Eye Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

James A. Castner, after graduation here, received the
LL.B. degree at the Brooklyn Law School. He is practicing
law in Newark, New Jersey, and is Director of Veterans
Employment for Newark Business and Industry. Address:
408 Walnut Street, Nutley 10, New Jersey.

Edmund Lee Gamble received his M.S. degree from Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology in 1930, and Ph.D. in 1932,
spent a year at the University of Paris, and returned to Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, where he is now Associate
Professor of Chemistry. Address: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Massachusetts.

Frank T. Parker is in the real estate and insurance busi-
ness in Charlottesville, Virginia.

1930

Howerton Gowen is President, Howerton Gowen Com-
pany, Inc., chemical manufacturers, and Gowen Oil Company,
Sy oil distributors, Box 247, Roanoke Rapids, North Caro-
ina.

William E. R. Byrne, Jr., is in the accounting business in
Yuma, Arizona. Address: 740 14th Street, Yuma, Arizona.

J. Arlington Painter, after graduation from Washington
and Lee, received the LL.B. degree from the University of
Richmond in 1933. He is now teaching at Lock Haven Senior
High School, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania.

Herbert G. Jahncke has been cmployed since 1931 by
Jahncke Services, Inc., a family owned business, in various
Positions. He is now in charge of the Building Material De-
Partment of this company. He married Margaret Hanriques
in 1934 and they have three sons, Walter Frederick, Robert

Herbert and Herbert Grant, Jr. Home address: 1 Bamboo
Road, New Orleans, Louisiana.

James B. Merrick is the owner and manager of By-Pro-
duct Lime Business; farm manager and director of the Mill-
ington Bank of Maryland, Crumpton, Maryland.

Morton E. Padgett has been practicing law in Bedford,
Virginia, since 1931. His partner is John B. Oliver, LL.B., 730.

1931

Sidney W. Clay is Trust Officer with United States Trust
Company, 5th and Main, Louisville 2, Kentucky. He received
the degree of M.B.A. from Harvard in 1933.

Dr. Leonard C. Borland received the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery from Loyola in 1934, and is practicing his pro-
fession at 1135 Madison, Oak Park, Florida.

Philip L. Thomas is a druggist in Roxboro, North Caro-
lina, owning his own business since 1934.

Rev. Luther W. King has been Minister of Metropolitan-
Duane Church (Methodist), New York City, since 1944. Ad-
dress: 56 Seventh Avenue, New York 11, New York.

Walter E. Hoffman is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia,
with offices at 1107-1113 National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing. Before receiving his LL.B. degree from Washington and
Lee he attended the University of Pennsylvania (Wharton
School of Finance and Commerce) receiving the degree of
B.S. in Commerce.

Atherton Seeley is an accountant executive with Gray &
Rogers, Advertising, 12 South 12th Street, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. His home is at 519 Wyndmoor Avenue, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Harold Mayer Weston, formerly with the National Labor
Relations Board, is now engaged in the general practice of
law at the International Building, 45 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York 20, New York.

1932

Charles C. Love is an occupational analyst with the Em-
ployment Security Commission, Box 2209, Raleigh, North
Carolina.

Beverley H. Smith is in the automobile business—Smith-
Berling Company—Ford Cars and trucks, 31506 Grand River
Avenue, Farmington, Michigan.

Lloyd H. Richmond practiced law in Flint, Michigan, for
a year after leaving school; served as a Special Agent in
Charge with F.B.I. from 1934 to 1941; from 1941 to 1943 was
Personnel Manager, with Montgomery Ward & Company,
and is now Manager, Employee Relations, Marshall Field &
Company. Address: 1715 Walnut Avenue, Wilmette, Illinois.

George A. (Algy) Speer, Jr., is practicing law in Sanford,
Florida. He reports on a son, Tommy, now 13, who will proba-
bly, in due course, be coming to Washington and Lee.

James D. Sparks, after graduation here, practiced law
alone until 1939. He is now a member of the firm of Thomp-
son, Thompson and Sparks, Bernhardt Building, Monroe,
Louisiana.

Ross L. Malone, Jr., is a member of the law firm of At-
wood, Malone & Campbell, J. P. White Building, Roswell;
New Mexico.

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Henry MacKenzie is practicing law under the firm name
of MacKenzie, Carr and MacKenzie, his brother, John A.
MacKenzie, LL.B., ’39, also being a member of the firm. Their
offices are in the New Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia.

Hannibal N. (Neal) Joyce has practiced law in Martins-
ville, Virginia, since 1932. His partner is Bill Stone, LL.B., ’33.

1933

John A. Shoemaker, after his return from service with the
U. S. Armed Forces, became connected with The Union
Chain and Manufacturing Company, 1217 Commercial Trust
suilding, Philadelphia 2, Pennsylvania.

Julian A. Levy is in the clothing business with his father
in Galveston, Texas, E. S. Levy & Company, 2227 Postoffce
Street, Galveston.

Carl B. Vickers is Prosecuting Attorney of Fayette Coun-
ty, West Virginia. He is a member of the law firm of Mont-
gomery and Vickers.

Edwin W. Chittum is Principal of Northview High School,
5000 Sewells Point, Norfolk 10, Virginia.

John F. Watlington, Jr., is Senior Vice-President, Wacho-
via Bank & Trust Company, Charlotte, North Carolina, and
Director of the Bank of Reidsville, Reidsville, North Caro-
lina. He was married to Margaret Jones on February 22, 1947.

1934

Dr. John D. Battle has recently accepted an appointment
to the permanent staff of the Cleveland Clinic (Crile), in the
department of Internal Medicine. Address. Cleveland Clinic
Euclid Avenue, at 93rd Street, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

Arthur Tonsmeire, Jr., is President of First Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Association of Mobile, 154 St. Louis Street,
Mobile, Alabama.

Rev. Norwood E. Band has been Minister of the important
Park Congregational Church, Midvale Avenue and St. Michael
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, since 1943. In addition to
his church work, Mr. Band is a lecturer and contributing writ-
er. He is married and has three sons.

George H. Foster is now back at Washington and Lee as
assistant professor of English. He is married and has two
children, Emily, five; and Ned, a year and a half. They live in
the new faculty apartment house recently erected in David-
son Park.

Robert B. Safford is now Assistant Manager, Life, Ac-
cident and Group, Travelers Insurance Company, 955 Main
Street, Bridgeport, Connecticut. Home address: 2065 Home-
land, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

Richard W. Grafton, class agent for 1934, is District Sales
Manager, Superior Steel Corporation, Carnegie, Pennsylvania.
Home address: 101 Mt. Lebanon Boulevard, Mt. Lebanon,
Pennsylvania.

1935

Frederick DeRosset Strong is Assistant to the Control-
ler Pepperell Manufacturing Company, 160 State Street, Bos-
ton, Massachusetts.

Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr., graduated with the A.B. de-
gree from V.M.I. before receiving the LL.B. degree from

[ 26 |

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  

Washington and Lee. He served in the Judge Advocate’s De-
partment from June 1941 until August, 1946, reaching th
rank of Colonel. He is practicing law in Staunton, Virginia,

James M. Franklin has been in the life insurance business
since 1939. He is with the Provident Mutual Life Insurance
Company, of Philadelphia, Suite 1534, 111 John Street, New
York 7, New York.

Craig H. Berry is the owner and manager of a drug store
at 6200 High School Avenue, Dallas, Texas. He was in the
Navy in World War II for 45 months, 33 months of which
time were spent overseas.

Gilbert McKown has practiced law in Martinsburg, West
Virginia, since receiving his LL.B. from the University of
Richmond with the exception of time spent in the Navy dur-
ing World War II. He is President of Spring Gap Fruit Com-
pany and Vice-President, Appalachian Orchards, Inc., Mar-
tinsburg, and Director, Consolidated Orchard Company,
Paw Paw, West Virginia.

1936

Rev. James L. Price, Jr., after serving as Director of Re-
ligious Activities and Instructor in Bible and Cognant Lit-
erature at Washington and Lee since September, 1946, is now
working on his Ph.D., at Cambridge, England. His perman-
ent address is Chase City, Virginia.

E. Angus Powell, after graduation at Washington and
Lee, received the degree of M.B.A. from Harvard Business
School. He is Vice-President of David M. Lea Company, Ince.,
Richmond, Virginia. He married Helen Elizabeth Bryson in
1940 and they have two daughters, Helen Elizabeth and Kath-
erine Bryson. He spent most of the war years as a flight in-
structor and military pilot.

Edward S. Boze is a salesman with Hopper Paper Com-
pany, Richmond, Virginia. Residence address: 2211 West
Grace Street, Richmond, Virginia.

James M. White is a cotton merchant and warehouse man
Director and President, Planters Wholesale and Storage
Company, Inc., Huntsville, Alabama.

James A. Robertson is a tobacco buyer. Address: 411 West
Main Street, Danville, Virginia.

1937

Robert C. Hoff is District Supervisor, U.S. Fidelity &
Guaranty Company, at 757 North Broadway, Milwaukee 2,
Wisconsin. Home address: 3257 North Marietta Avenue, Mil-
waukee 11, Wisconsin.

Eugene G. Clayton is Advertising Copy Writer with Do-
herty, Clifford & Shenfield, Inc., 350 Fifth Avenue, New York,
New York.

Clark B. Winter is Assistant to the Treasurer of Ameri-
can Express Company, 65 Broadway, New York, New York.
He married Margery Louise Forbes in 1943 and they have a
daughter Betsy Forbes born April 27, 1945. Home address:
220 West Smith Street, Merrick, Long Island, New York.

Kelley E. Reed, Sr., is in the building contracting busi-
ness in Charleston, West Virginia. He is President, Reed Con-
struction Company, Inc., Secretary and Treasurer, K. E. Reed
& Company, and Director, Club Sand Company. He was
married to Beverley Middelburg in 1937 and they have a son,
Kelley E., III, born October 16, 1941.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

Randolph V. L. Hall is a chemist and metallurgist with
Koppers Connecticut Coke Co., Stiles Street, New Haven,
Connecticut. He was married to Beverly Barton on April
6, 1947. Address: 307 Alden Avenue, New Haven 15, Con-

necticut.

1933

J. Oliver Gluyas is Employment Manager and Assistant
to Director of [Industrial Relations with American Pulley
Company, 4200 Wissahickon Avenue, Philadelphia 29, Penn-
sylvania. He has a new home address at Berlin Road, Linden-

wold, New J ersey.

Dr. Martin C. Cassett received the degree of D.O. from
Philadelphia College of Osteopathy in 1943 and M.D. from
Chicago College of Medical Surgery in 1945. He is practic-
‘no his profession at 237 Monmouth Street, Gloucester City,
New Jersey.

E. Sidney Vaughan, Jr., is a Chemical Engineer with Rem-
ington Arms Company, 960 Barnum Avenue, Bridgeport,
Connecticut. His home address is: 88 MacArthur Drive, Strat-
ford, Connecticut.

Robert William Hilton, Jr., after graduation here, re-
seived the LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School. He is as-
sociated with the law firm of Paxton and Seasongood, 1616
Union Central Building, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

1939

Roland R. Remmel received the degree of B.S. in Business
Administration from the University of Arkansas in 1940. He
is in the wholesale building materials business at 500 East
Markham Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Asa R. Sphar is in the wholesale seed business and farm-
ing, under the firm name of Sphar & Company, Winchester,
Kentucky. He was married to Elizabeth Anne Cole on Feb-
ruary 7, 1948.

Garret Hiers, Jr., is a sales engineer with Egyptian Lac-
quer Manufacturing Company, RKO Building, Radio City,
New York, New York.

Thornton R. Cleek is beginning his junior year in medi-
cine at the Medical College of Virginia. Address: Box 361,
Medical College of Virginia.

Sherwin B. French has been with the Detroit Times since
1939. He is now in the Advertising Department. Home ad-
dress: 2239 Burns Avenue, Detroit 14, Michigan.

1940

Fred D. Shellabarger, who was graduated from the archi-
tectural school of the University of Illinois in August, was
the winner of the second prize—$500.00—in the Chicago Tri-
bune’s Better Rooms Competition of 1948. A full page spread
of the floor plan and room grouping in color appeared in the
Tribune’s magazine section of August 22, 1948. Address: care
of Mrs. A. F. Mack, 1507 Meadowmere Lane, Springfield,

Missouri.

_ Edwin J. Foltz is in charge of the F.B.I. office in Atlanta,
Georgia. Address: 501 Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

Joseph B. Edwards, Sr., is Manager of Chickasha Coca-
Cola Bottling Company, Chickasha, Oklahoma. He married

Orothy Gray in 1943 and they have two sons, Joseph B., Jr.,
and Thomas G.

Horace W. Bittenbender received the B.S. degree from
Washington and Jefferson College before graduating from the
Law School here. Before he was entirely set up in the legal
profession he was inducted into the Army and served for
five years. He is now practicing law at Room 607, Times
Building, St. Petersburg 1, Florida.

Earl Morgan, Jr., is advertising and promotions manager,
James Lees & Sons Company, Bridgeport, Pennsylvania. He
writes his class agent that he is still “wacking at the golf
pill” and was playing in club championship finals the week-
end his letter was written. Home address: P.O. Box 802,
Villanova, Pennsylvania.

1941

Lieutenant-Commander Otis C. Ferrell, Jr., was a visitor
to the campus in September. Home address: 1411 Taylor
Avenue, Seattle, Washington.

Herbert M. Woodward, Jr., is Treasurer and Business
Manager Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Vir-
ginia.

A. T. (Junie) Bishop is General Manager of Monarch Auto
Company, Lincoln-Mercury, Broadway at Brook, Louisville,
Kentucky. He married Helen Lewis in 1941 and they have
recently bought a new home at 2624 Landor Avenue, Louis-
ville 5, Kentucky.

Bayard S. Berghaus, after going inactive from the Marine
Corps in May, 1946, married Elsie Lodge of Vineland, New
Jersey, on August 16, 1946, and they now have a son, Robert
Kdward, born June 18, 1947. Bayard is now a master at St.
Paul’s School in Baltimore, Maryland.

William C. (Bill) Soule went to the Wake Forest School
of Law, Wake Forest, North Carolina, last fall after a year
of graduate study at the University of Michigan, where he
received the degree of LL.M. He married Alice Virginia Wall
in 1945 and on January 16, 1948, their daughter, Alice Vir-
ginia, was born.

H. Thomas Martin is with the American Brokerage Com-
pany, Roanoke, Virginia. He was elected president of The
Roanoke Junior Chamber of Commerce last June. Address:
422 King George Avenue, S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

1942

George Woolfenden is with the Karl M. Harrop Paper
Company, Bristol, Tennessee-Virginia. He married Roberta
Latture of Lexington and their son, David, is now two years

old.

Henry M. Young, Captain in the Medical Corps, expected
to be separated from the service within a short time, and will
enter the graduate school of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania in October for an eight months course, after
which he will become a resident. Home address: 122 West
Lloyd Street, Pensacola, Florida.

Ned H. Brower is still with Beau Brummel Ties, Inc.,
Cincinnati, Ohio. He was married to Shirley Ellen Oscher-
witz in 1945 and they now have two sons, Paul Allen and
Scott Anthony. Address: 5130 Reading Road, Cincinnati 29,
Ohio.

Green Rives, Jr., was married to Betty Gordon Smith on
May 14, 1948. This is his third year with W. C. Nabors Com-
pany, manufacturers of trailers, Mansfield, Louisiana. Ad-
dress: 114 Welsh Street, Mansfield, Louisiana.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

C. Tom Garten says his biggest news is the birth of his
son, Charles Thomas Garten, Jr., on March 27, 1948. Tom,
Sr., is still a time salesman with WSAZ in Huntington, West
Virginia. Permanent address: 2402 East Washington Street,
Charleston 1, West Virginia.

Bob Schultz is an instructor in government and economics
at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Virginia. Last
year he completed his master’s degree at Fletcher School
in Boston. He was married in 1944 to Susan Sweeney of Lex-
ington, Kentucky, and they have a girl 2% and a boy 6 months
old.

Robert W. Root is still working for the Navy as a photo-
graphic interpreter (civilian) and doing work for Naval Intel-
ligence. He married Margaret B. West in 1944 and they have
a daughter, Nancy Lee, born June 7, 1946. Address: 14 Dan-
bury Street S.W., Washington 20, D.C.

William M. Atlee is with W. R. Grace and Company, 7
Hanover Square, New York, New York. He was married to
Barbara Sutton Flagg on July 20, 1946. Their home address
is 532 East 87th Street, New York, New York.

John MacBride was married to Mary Blythe Allen on No-
vember 9, 1946, and they have a son, Peter, now about a year
old. John is assistant to the vice-president of Cowan and
Dengler, advertising agency. Address: 79 Appletree Lane,
Roslyn Heights, Long Island, New York.

Gustave Essig is now with the Monsanto Chemical Com-
pany, Dayton, Ohio. Home address: 538 Superior Avenue,
Apartment 4, Dayton, Ohio.

L. A. Pridham is in the general construction business with
Vivrett & Vivrett, Insurance Building, Dallas Texas. He
married Clemence Vivrett in 1943 and they have recently
moved into their new home at 5105 Horseshoe Trail, Dallas
9, Texas.

Edwin D. Chase, Jr., is now with the Studebaker Corpora-
tion, in their business Management Department. Address:
1319 Lincolnway West, South Bend 16, Indiana.

Samuel R. Hawkins has been with the United States Em-
ployment Service for the past five years and is now in the
personnel division of the Governor’s office in Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He was in the Army Air Forces service in England,
France and Germany doing Job and Placement Classification
work as a Classification Specialist. He married Annette
Robins on September 20, 1947. Address: 3104 Kenbridge
Street, Gilbert Gardens, Richmond 23, Virginia.

James H. Woosley is in the general insurance business at
840 Ryan Street, Lake Charles, Louisiana.

Dr. George F. Parton, Jr., graduated from Cornell Medi-
cal School in 1945, and after a two-year stretch in the Navy,
returned home last Christmas, and began his residency at
Grasslands Hospital, Valhalla, New York, in March.

Dr. Phillip A. Wilhite, Jr., has been practicing medicine
since 1945. He was released from the service on March 22,
1948, to inactive duty. He was married to Elise Huffaker in
1944. Address: 5407 Queensbury Road, Richmond 21, Vir-
ginia.

Daniel C. Lewis, Jr., graduated from Graduate School of
Business Administration, Harvard University in June, 1948,
and was married to Miss Elizabeth S. Baer, daughter of
Professor and Mrs. Herbert R. Baer of Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, on June 5, 1948. They will be making their home in

[ 28 |

    
   
    
 
  
    
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  

Boston for a least a year as Dan has accepted a position with
Lybrand, Ross Brothers and Montgomery, certified publi¢
accountants, there. Address: 15 Lakeview, Arlington, Mas-
sachusetts.

Robert \f. Vaughan’s name has now been added to the
firm name—Easley, Edmunds and Vaughan, Attorneys-at-
Law—South Boston, Virginia. In addition to his practice he
has assumed many civic duties and also paternal duties as the

father of a daughter, Mary Turnbull Vaughan, born, July
24, 1947.

1943

William S. Wilcox has been engaged in graduate stud
and college teaching since his discharge from the Army Aji
Corps. He was married to Lois Jane Steidtmann in 1945 and
they have a son, William Edward, born, August 6, 1946. Ad
dress: Shorter College, Rome, Georgia.

Robert B. Brainard, Jr., is special agent, Aetna Insurance
Company, 670 Main Street, Hartford, Connecticut. Home ad
dress: 296 Ridge Road, Middletown, Connecticut.

John Craig Kammerer hopes to enter M.I.T. this fall, con
tinuing his work as a geologist. Address: 531 West 8th Street
Plainfield, New Jersey.

Donald H. Adams is sales representative for New York
and Connecticut for Jacques Kreisler Manufacturing Corpora
tion, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York. Home ad
dress: 150 Hartsdale Avenue, Hartsdale, New York.

Francis R. Russell, A.B., ’43, received a certificate in jour
nalism in June, 1948. He is now with the Marion Publishing
Company, Marion, Virginia, and was recently elected sec
retary-treasurer of the Appalachian chapter of Washingto
and Lee Alumni. His wife, who was on the staff of the Me
Cormick Library here, is now head librarian at Marion Col
lege, Marion, Virginia.

Robert C. Mehorter is an insurance underwriter with
Home Indemnity Company, 59 Maiden Lane, New Yor
New York.

S. L. Kopald, Jr., is still working as Purchasing Agen
with the Humko Company, his father’s business, in Memphis,
Tennessee.

Jack C. Murrell was married to Miss Sibil Barnette of
March 27, 1948. He is still working in the Loan Depart
ment of the Continental-American Bank and Trust Company
in Shreveport, Louisiana.

Fred T. Miller has recently been made Sales Manager fo
Adel Precision Products Corporation in Burbank Californié
Address 10777 Van Owen Street, Burbank, California. H
has been with this corporation for a total of seven years.

1944

Alvin D. Aisenberg received the D.D.S. degree from th
University of Maryland in 1944. He is now at the Naval De
tal Clinic, Park and Vanderbilt Avenues, Brooklyn, Nev
York.

William Bell Guthrie has resigned as instructor in Eng
lish at McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tennessee, and is no
at the University of Virginia working toward a masters dé
gree in English, where he expects to be for the next thre
years. Address: 414 Brandon Avenue, Charlottesville, Vi
ginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Attending the meeting of the American Bar Association in
Seattle, Washington, on September 6, Steve Chadwick, whose
home is in Seattle, Henry Barker and Sam Williams, held an
impromptu reunion of the class at the foot of Mt. Ranier.

 

Robert James Hiltabrand is with McLean County Ab-
stract Company, Peoples Bank Building, Bloomington, Illi-
nois.

1945

Look for Sam DiBlasi’s name in the St. Louis Cardinals
lineup next year. Sam had a fine season at third base for
Houston in the Texas League, a Cardinal farm. He was an
unanimous choice for all-star honors this year and finished
the season hitting well over .300. He owns one of the finest

arms in baseball.

Robert J. B. Mahon, Jr., of 251 Standish Road, Merian,
Pennsylvania, has recently joined the public relations staff
of the RCA Exhibition Hall in New York City’s Radio City.
This Exhibition is a permanent showplace for the Radio Cor-
poration of America and has become one of the leading sci-
entific attractions of New York, drawing more than 300,000
Visitors in its fourteen months of operation.

1948

/ John Randolph Tucker, Jr., is now associated with the law
firm of Tucker, Mays, Cabell and Moore, 1407 State-Plant-
ers Bank Building, Richmond, Virginia.

 

Marriages

1933

Richard K. Eddy was married to Leona A. Largent of
Winchester, Virginia, on August 2, 1947.

1934
Frederick N. Sager was married to Katheryn Woody on
August 31, 1948. Fred is doing graduate work at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

1938
William B. Bagbey was married to Lelia Smith Cocke on
October 9, 1948, at St. John’s Episcopal Church, Roanoke,
Virginia.
1939
James Alan Ballard was married to Anna Eliza Clark on
August 7, 1948.
1940
Gray Lee Carpenter was married to Alice Katherine Jack-
son on September 25, 1948.
Horace W. Bittenbender was married to Betty Rachel
Swanson on August 7, 1948, in Tampa, Florida.
Harry Coppee Mason was married to Susan James Wil-
son on September 11, 1948, in Orange, Virginia.

1941
Charles G. Thalhimer was married to Mrs. Rhoda Rubin
Rich September 12, 1948, at Kings Point, Great Neck, Long
Island, New York. They will make their home in Richmond,
Virginia.
1942
Daniel C. Lewis was married to Elizabeth S. Baer on June
5, 1948, in Harvard Memorial Church, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts.
Frank Linton LaMotte, Jr., and Isabel Garcia Benito were
married in Baltimore, Maryland, September 11, 1948.
Grady Henry Forgy, Jr., was married to Jean Manney on
August 31, 1948, in Little Rock, Arkansas.
Dr. George F. Parton, Jr., was married to Phyllis Bur-
dett on November 27, 1948.
1943

Philip A. Sellers was married to Caroline Rudulph on July
7, 1948, in Montgomery, Alabama.

Lewis Tyree, Jr., was married to Dorothy Agnes Hinch-
cliff on August 21, 1948, in Chicago, Illinois.

1944

Wallace E. Clayton was married to Patricia Ann Neuland
on October 4, 1948, in Washington, D. C.

Robert Atkinson Hite was married to Catherine Farring-
ton Leavy on August 28, 1948.

Dr. William Cunningham Crittenden was married to Con-
stance Conde Glasgow on August 20, 1948, in Lexington,
Virginia.

1946

William Boone Fife Bowman was married to Mary Helen
Westervelt September 10, 1948, in the Church of the Trans-
figuration, New York.

Donald S. Hillman was married to Carol Adele Phillips
on September 16, 1948.

1947

Lieutenant John Kinnear Davidson, Jr., was married to
Nancy Louise Ragan on April 17, 1948.

[29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1948

Ralph Johnson Davis was married to India Jane Harp on
September 4, 1948, in Hillsville, Virginia.

1950

James Lindsay Ewing, III, was married to Amelia Harrell
Crossland on September 11, 1948, in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Births

1932

Mr. and Mrs. Haven Walton announce the birth of a
daughter, Leslie Virginia Walton, born June 24, 1948.

1935

Dr. and Mrs. Sidney Lyons are the parents of a daughter,
Peggy Lynne, born August 9, 1948.

1938
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Neill are the parents of a son, John
Edmonds, Jr., born August 10, 1948.

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas Hart Baker are the parents of a son,
Thomas Hart Baker, Jr., born July 19, 1948.

1939

Dr. and Mrs. F. P. Maupai are the parents of a daughter,
Nanette Louise, born September 13, 1948.

1940
Mr. and Mrs. Harry B. Stoddart are the parents of a son,
Randall Thompson Stoddart, born August 5, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hammett are the parents of a
daughter, Carolyn Fleming Hammett, born June 20, 1948. Mr.
Hammett is a member of the law firm of Roberts and Ham-
mett, Giddens-Lane Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin T. Fleishman are the parents of twins,
Margaret Rose and Henry Donald, born September 21, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Bishop, Jr., are the parents of a son,
Alfred Thomas Bishop,. III, born August 5, 1948.

1942
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Cotesworth Cuttino are the parents
of a son, born September 12, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. Cash T. Skarda are the parents of a son,
Danny Taylor Skarda, born September 21, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. David Powers Pardee are the parents of a
daughter, Stephanie Honor Pardee, born August 8, 1948.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Flemming Robb, Jr., are the parents
of a son, Stuart Talley Robb, born July 25, 1948.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Clayton Williams are the parents of
twins, Susan Maury and Samuel Clayton, Jr., born October,
24, 1948.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. T. Ryland Dodson are the parents of a

daughter, Linda Carol, born April 16, 1948.

1947

Mr. and Mrs. McDonald Lee Stephens are the parents of
« daughter, Ann Lee Stephens, born July 16, 1948.

[ 30 |

In Memoriam

1892

Dr. Edwin Luther Green, retired professor of ancien
languages at the University of South Carolina, died August 8
1948, at his home, 318 Sims Avenue, Columbia, South Carg
lina.

   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  

1896
Dr. Henry Gilbert Reynolds died October 18, 1948. His

home was in Paducah, Kentucky.

1897

Samuel Manuel Davis Harrison died August 31, 1948, ir
Charlottesville, Virginia
Farrar Petrie Hamilton died August 14, 1948, at his home

in New Orleans, Louisiana, following a heart attack.

1904

Edward C. Miller, B.A., died October 23, 1948. He hag
recently retired as Business Manager of Virginia Polytechnie
Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia.

1908

William S. Graham of Norfolk, Virginia, died February
15, 1948. At the time of his death Mr. Graham was Distrie
Manager, Eastern Gas and Fuel Associations and Castner
Curran and Bullitt, Inc.

William Morrison Paxton died August 3, 1948. His home
was in Florence, Alabama.

Ray Robinson died September 16, 1948, in Winchester
Virginia.

1909

William Stanhope Tutwiler died September 22, 1948, ir

Atlanta, Georgia. His wife, the former Mary A. Howerto

is the daughter of the late Dr. James R. Howerton, professor

of Philosophy at Washington and Lee from 1907 to 1924.

Ewing Sloan Humphreys died Friday, September 17, 1948
in Atlanta Georgia. Son of Dr. David Carlyle Humphreys fo
many years professor and dean of the Washington and Lee
Engineering School, Mr. Humphreys lived in Lexingto
until his graduation from the engineering school in 1910.

Judge Cornelius C. Davis died September 26, 1948, at his
home in Clarksburg, West Virginia, of a heart attack.

John William Anthony, Jr., died August 30, 1948. His

home was in Evington, Virginia.

1913

James Ernest Yonge died November 1, 1948, at his home
in Miami, Florida. At the time of his death he was attorney fo
Pan American Airways.

1918

Horace C. Hearne died at his home in Shreveport, Louisi
ana, on October 4, 1948. He was Secretary-Treasurer of the
Hearne Dry Goods Company.

1921
Dr. John William Miller, Jr., died October, 1948. His home
was in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
1928
Ernest Emil Brett died at his home in Miami Beac
Florida, on August 31, 1948.

Lucius C. Johnson died at his home in Roanoke, Virginié
on September 9, 1948.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bicentennial

National Convocation
and

Alumni Reunion

June 16-18, 1949
1

 

Make your plans now to be
present. This will be the lar-
gest gathering of alumni in
Washington and Lee's his-
tory. All classes will
hold reunions.

tii
ao

Forms for making reservations will
be mailed all alumni by the
end of January.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wo and Lee proudly presents the

Atumn: Directory!

New taking orders!

D on't delay!

Fs information about
classmates and friends!

 

For details see the announcement and order-card which
you have already received.

