Ro |
lumni Magazine

a
i

| Washington and Lee University

NOVEMBER, 1949

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Glee Club

of Washington and Lee University

presents a

PHONOGRAPH ALBUM

 

sx WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING vy COLLEGE FRIENDSHIPS

The Glee Club, one of W. and L.’s finest,
offers you a treasure in favorite school songs:

WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING
COLLEGE FRIENDSHIPS
TO WASHINGTON AND LEE (Hymn)
and four ageless choral classics

Five outstanding photographs of the campus
and Glee Club (cover shown at left) decorate
this handsome blue and white album, custom-
recorded by the Nelson Cornell Company.

 

Order your Washington and Lee song album

WASHINGTON & Let UNIVERSITY SS en ee ee
UNIVERSITY SUPPLY STORE
: $5.50 includes insured shipping

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—-

ian—Francis R. Russell, '43, Marion

Appalaey shing Co., Marion, Virginia
ac—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch

Arkevreet, Little Rock, Arkansas

tlanta— Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally

» Building

. re—Lawrence Galloway, ‘43, 1009

BaltiMwodbourne Avenue

ingham Clifford B. Beasley, Jr., ’46, 2824
Birm verhill Road

Boston—W illiam R. Nutt, '43, 80 Federal St.

; _ West Virginia—Frank R. Bell, Jr.,
Charlestevanawha Valley Building

: nooga—Charles L. Claunch, '27, Chat-
ee nooge Bank Building

—_w. H. Hillier, '38, 5521 Blackstone

Demi renue, Chicago 37, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcroft, Jr., °41, Park
Road

Cleveland Samuel P. McChesney, Jr., '38, 1556
Hanna Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr, C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—Hugh C. Macfarlane, ’40,
First Nat'l Bank Bldg., Tampa, Florida

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—Robert C. Hobson, ‘40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—Peyton B. Winfree, ‘'35, 3865
Peakland Place

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, °'37, 4158
uckahoe Lane

New York—W. J. L. Patton, '22, National City
Bank, 55 Wall Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
'13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—Harry Rand, ‘27, Universal
Mills, Forth Worth

eee burs—Clende P. Light, ‘06, Court
ouse

pmiladelphia—Frank D. Grew, °37, 1539 Race

reet

Piedmont—D. Newton Farnell, '24, Box 273,
Greensboro, North Carolina

Richmond—W. B. Jacobs, ’29, Central National
Bank

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., ’33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

San_ Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L, Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38,
Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Harry J. Breithaupt, '36,
Investment Building

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

i

 

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the

Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

Editor.................... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

 

Vol. XXV NOVEMBER, 1949 No. 1

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presidentick oi. WarrEN E.. Titson, 1926
Vice-President........ FREDERICK S. JoHNsON, 1911
Secretary .......0.0065. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TeQSUPP.....0..06.c.c0000 Horace W. PuILtips, 1908

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Amos A. Boten, 1934
FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911
WarrEN E. Titson, 1926
Horace W. Puitwips, 1908
FRANK T. Breapy, 1931
GrorcE E.. Burks, 1927
C. C. Moors, 1913
KENNETH P. LANE, 1936

THE COVER—What goes on here? Little did the founding
fathers of ODK ever suspect that the new memorial bench
they erected beside McCormick Library last spring would
become a campus casino. Here the Rockbridge County March-
ing and Chowder Club engages in a “little game of chance.”
If you drop your penny in the “D” (the “O” and the “K”
don’t count), you win the pot.—An un-posed photo by Philip
Flournoy, Virginia State Chamber of Commerce.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

Education, Bacon, and Eggs

The task and the thrill of education are in this high
privilege, to bring youth of promise, youth of excellence,
into a knowledge of life’s supreme cultural and spiritual
values. It is an ennobling conception and it is exalting
work. Too bad, you may say, that educators so often
change their tone, descend to the constant discussion of
material things, to the sordid and sometimes morbid chat-
ter of dollars and cents.

A ica

But I never knew of any church so closely identified
with the delectable heights, or of any home so divinely
blessed in its interplay of purest affection, that did not
sooner or later take account of expenditures, that did not
face the problem of lucre. And the question is a constant
one for educational institutions. Timidly but under a
mandate of stewardship, I present a few “phases of

lucre.”’
* * * * x

It was my happiness, my somewhat surprised happi-
ness, to report to our governing Board that we closed last
year with a tiny surplus. Actually our situation for the
year was practically perfect; institutions of learning are
supposed not to make money or to lose money, but to
spend currently their income—and no more—on the
present expression of their enterprise. The story I was
fortunate enough to tell is not, however, the story of
many of the strongest and the best of American colleges ;
large numbers showed a crippling deficit.

ee

The situation has filled college leaders with apprehen-
sion. An outward and visible sign of this anxiety is the
fact that tuition rates have risen sharply. The New York
Times (October 2, 1949) reports that in 630 institutions
studied, tuition rates are “now an average of 52% higher
than they were in 1941-42.” Our tuition rate, by the way,
is 50 % higher, and thus we are just about the average.

(RS SA A Sie

I should be tedious (more tedious even than normal) if
I were to list here the rising cost of various items of our
necessary expense. For the students, I chose coal, as per-
haps most dramatic; for approximately the same amount
of coal that we used in the session of 1941-42, we shall
pay this year almost exactly three times the amount of
money. Other factors have not risen so vividly but the
increase is tremendous, particularly in building and re-

    
    
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
  
    
  
   
  

pair material and in wages for the non-professional]
The same forces that push up our costs operate in a)
mestic circles, and our faculty members have felt
most desperate economic pressure.

'.2 ee ee 3

For the current session, there was nothing for ys
but raise tuition, and raise it by a rather large jump.
that tuition raise, I wish to emphasize, even repeat
facts. |

Oe ee ]

The first fact is that the raise would not have been
ible, certainly in terms of our ideals, if our alumn
other friends had not built for us a gratifying seh
ship fund. We have now almost a million dollars in
tal funds, the income from which is to be used exeh
ly to help worthy boys who lack adequate funds of
own. The other fact is that, with a few exception
unescapable increased costs of operation, the prineip
crease in revenue is used for salaries, to ease the
den of those personalities who carry the essential we
th University.

Sele se Se

If we could assume that conditions would remain §
we should be fairly comfortable. It is, we must re
fully admit, a future of uncertainty that we face. ]
ness depression, further increase of costs, even |
national uncertainties could disturb us. The enor
outlay of public money to our competing institutior
der public control could out-mode us. Nobody can
template the future with serenity of mind. |

eS eee eae

We have no hope except the continuing loyalty
support of our alumni, our patrons, and other f
who believe in this type of institution and_beliey
Washington and Lee particularly. Aid from the Fe
government is a poor policy and even if adopted
erally would not be accepted by this University. We
no other resources than the sustained loyalty and gené
ity of our friends, but we have a happy confidence
these friends will not fail us.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—

Beginning the Third Century

By John French, ’50

beginning of its third century, Washington and
narks also the beginning of a new transition back to its
Lee es status. Since September, 1946, the school has had a
_ n-studded campus, but with the beginning of this year
BF snd FR is going back into the hands of the younger high
yradauates.
tien in the school is still high, as a total of 1238
registered in the combined academic and law schools
This does show a decided trend toward a smaller student
body, however, having dropped 55 men below last y ars en-
collment, and almost a hundred below the number registered
in 1940. ; ee
For the last year, the veteran influence has been clinging
on, although the trend here is apparent. In this year's fresh-
man class there are only nine vets, as compared with 30 last
vear, and much greater numbers the two previous sessions.
Total enrollment is an even greater evidence of the transition.

With the

men are

 

———————

 

Do all freshmen have to take mathematics?”... “Well, you
can substitute some crip course like Greek or Latin.”

Ramet

 

“Hurry up and wait” is the by-word in the registration line.

 

Out of the total registered in September, 359 are veterans, as
compared with 624 last year, and over a thousand in 1946.
Furthermore, a large majority of these 359 are entered in
the law school.

Dean Frank Gilliam cites these statistics as a mirror of
not only what the University is doing about crowded con-
ditions, but also what the future holds. For the last three
years, W. and L. has taken in approximately 300 freshmen,
because of the vast number of applicants, but Dean Gilliam
says that the trend is now, and will continue to be, toward
cutting down total enrollment to about 950. This, however,
is expected to take care of itself, largely through the greatly
enlarged graduating classes, filled with veterans, and through
the normal number of men who leave school before graduating.

The Law School is a different story. Here, the policy is
to take in as many qualified men as the staff can teach, mainly
because of the fact that enrollment is sure to drop as the vet-
erans graduate. This will be a few more years than in the aca-
demic school.

One other trend, still in the embryonic process, is evident
from the beginning of this session. Of the new men taken,
15 were transfers, a larger number than at any time since the
war. The policy of the school is still to restrict the number of
transfers except in special cases, but nevertheless, the swing
is still back to taking more than the one or two which have
been allowed to enter since the war.

Ci Rob Be

The big disappointment of the opening of the 300th ses-
sion was the absence of President Gaines for the opening
day assembly. This was the first time in 19 years that Dr.
Gaines had not been present to officially begin the school year.
His absence was forced by serious illness, although he is
greatly improved now and is back in his office in Washing-
ton Hall.

x *k x x x

Fraternity pledging on the campus this year reached

an all time high of 258 men—taken in by the seventeen

[5 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 
 

 

 

It’s not a rat-race, just the central pick-up spot
during fraternity rush week.

 

houses. This number of new men has bolstered the size of
the fraternities to greater heights than ever before, and has also
increased the number of fraternity men on the campus to an
all-time high. Some houses now have as many as 70 men, with
the average number around 55.

Another new addition to the campus in the social line is
the recently formed Campus Club. This organization is made
up of men not in fraternities, and replaces the old Non-Fra-
ternity Union with a set-up along the lines of the fraternities
themselves. It is closely knit, with a meeting place in the Stu-
dent Union building, and organized participation in all social
and political activities.

coe ee

A sad note was struck with the opening of the session when
it was learned that the old freshman camp site, which has
been used for the past 17 years, will no longer be available.
Camp Powhatan has been abandoned by its owners, the
Roanoke Boy Scouts, and as a result the school is now in the
process of locating a new site.

Dean Gilliam says that he now has a new spot in mind,
with the hope that it will be large enough to accommodate
the entire freshman class, and not just the restricted number
made necessary in the past by the small-sized Powhatan.

x* * * * *

Another policy is in the making as the third century starts
rolling. For the past three years, the freshman dorm has
been crowded beyond its capacity of 270 men, and plans
are now being made to remedy the situation as part of the
transition. One of two plans is to be followed: either the
size of the freshman class will be cut to a maximum of 270
men, or new dormitory facilities must be built.

eB .O84: 8s8

When the third century began at Washington and Lee this
year on September 23, there were 13 new faces present in the
classrooms besides the students. Eight of these new faculty
members are past graduates of W. and L., and one the past
Dean of Roanoke College.

The new appointments are:

Rex Criminale, ’45, Instructor in Spanish;
John E. Davis, Instructor in Biology;

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
    
   
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
    

Dr. Marshall Fishwick, Head of the new division of 4,
can Studies; 7
Richard W. Gray, Instructor in Spanish;
Charles L. Green, ’40, Registrar;
Charles L. Guthrie, Jr., ’39, Director of Religioys We
William B. Guthrie, 44, Instructor in English;
Marion Junkin, ’27, Professor of Fine Arts;
Daniel C. Lewis, Jr., 42, Assistant Professor of Comm
Dr. Edward D. Myers, Philosophy (past Dean of Roar
College) ;
Buford S. Stephenson, ’42, Assistant Professor of Ger
Henry L. Ravenhorst, ’35, Instructor in Engineering:
Dr. Joseph H. Wolfe, Assistant Professor of Law, ~

 

Student Sons of Alumni

Every year in the fall issue of the Alumni Magazine
list the names of sons of Alumni enrolled at Washington
Lee. In compiling this list there has always been at least
omisssion and sometimes more. We hope that no omission
occurred in the following list, but if so that you will notj

From available records there are 143 sons of alumni
rolled; 12 less than the all-time record of 155 during”
1948-49 session.

The classes represented by alumni fathers cover a
period beginning with 1903 and ending with 1931.

Son Father
Anderson, Willis Martin...................... Willis Carl Andersog
Bagley, Thomas Oweh...........ccsscecereees *Charles F. Bagley,
Ballard, Emmett Jesse..............0.... Sherman Hart Ballard,
Ballard, Wade Hampton................06 Sherman Hart Ballard,
Barker, Elbridge Gerry, IV............. ...Elbridge G. Barker,
Barron, William Franklin, Jr... W. F. Barron,
Beall, “NV bins WD Bt soils seicasessryncdevricsactohespeeenl Allein Beall,
Bitzér, Emory West, Ji vciscsscetessceiesecets Emory West Bitzer,
Brock; William ‘Ey ELT. sc isiisinsa William E. Brock, Jr.
Brown, Wesley Gregor y...........ssccscessecssess Edward E. Brown,
Buicholte:: Sagi, Ji. ccise csrecscctehaustaappheaseearastpeadeeds Sam Bucholtz,
Campbell, Edmund Douglas, Jr......... Edmund D. Campbell,
Campbell, Thornton Wilson ............ *Malcolm D. Campbel
* Deceased

 

Volleyball at freshman camp

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“Wonder how it'll be four years from now... ?”

 

=
Son Father

BEE, Gai tle®.,..ccsr.scscsecsssieccsseoesasessesorncnasoses Robert H. Carr, ’23
EE EO TNLCSE? EL OPO. i ccca sumo nnhsegenoiavusoesaoesnnst Oldham Clarke, ’28
METILIO, JT ipecasheenstacsg tyinar cocknscabpiemssnirsisvel dei Ge Philo Coco, ’21
Boles, Robert Charlton.................sccsssssessees Robert W. Coles, ’28
Sailins, Lewis Preston, ITT...................ssce00 L. P. Collins, II, ’20
Betstalton ELOpieins, [8 icescccscciesesessesorstecenscvevee G. H. Cook, 31
TOD) Ms inc scideancSbisiepdnis edvcans <lSavecesh W. Randolph Cosby, ’26
Cosby, William Randolph, II.............. W. Randolph Cosby, ’26
MERINICS -'L oh. bedpc ct ntrgsabtas dheamvssavatiiinagen George Lacy Coyle, °12
Coyle, Thomas Claiborne Green........ George Lacy Coyle, °12
RENT BE ESAS pteipe at oh FR ARLE SR AS FS Ryland G. Craft, 713
Davenport, Rudolph Blevins.................... *R. B. Davenport, ’24
Davis, Beverly Andrew, ITI.......................... B. A. Davis, Jr., ’20
Davis, Thomas Dewey, JT..............cc0000 Dr. T. Dewey Davis, ’19
Dawkins, Crowell T., Jru..........c.ccccccssees Crowell T. Dawkins, ’09
Dawkins, Oliver Cromwell, ITI............ O. C. Dawkins, Jr., ’27
Re WY cos PE ii Gircucestececenstusesatesocshetanaes Henry W. Dew, ’11
Seeleston, Samuel D., Jr..............cccccccceee Sam D. Eggleston, ’09
WAL EV VAM oui decceccccccccecssccscccssodecocce Thomas Jean Ellis, ’23
Engleby, Thomas Joseph, Jr...............ccc000000 T. J. Engleby, ’20
Eristoff, George Andrew........ Dimitri G. Sidamon-Eristoff, ’25
Patrar, William Ward.............c.sc.sccceee. William M. Farrar, °19
Mellers, Stanford Lee, Jri.......ccccscccsessesess Stanford L. Fellers, °13
Me, William Kemt, Jriccscsecccccccccsccsecessecetsees W. Kent Ford, ’22
Forman, Benno Mar cuse.........cccsccescseeseseees Isadore Forman, °12
Fozzard, Harry Allen................cscecececsseeees Harry B. Fozzard, ’29
Fritchie, Gus Alexander, Jr......ccccccscseseseses. Gus A. Fritchie, ’19
EN i Sec tien tae cadbenh secs Arthur High Garst, ’26
Gilliam, Fontaine Johnson... Frank J. Gilliam, °17
Glasgow, har les. Sig ep Polskie cece Aloe thooet Charles S. Glasgow, ’09
Glickstein, Fugit: Siatcalacsabasnieaaas Joseph M. Glickstein, ’20
Gooch, Claiborne WERE TEE rock cchsttecccctuts C. W. Gooch, Jr., 715
Goodwin, Russell B., Jressseccscssessssseseeeee Russell B. Goodwin, ’18
ee ROY Fe FRAG decimate t Roy J. Grimley, ’21
Hagan, William Campbell.................... Dr. Hugh J. Hagan, 10
Hall, William CIO the TE ew iaseasspsctnvecs William Guion Hall, ’25
ansbarger, Echols Alcott, Jri..c.sesses-+--. E. A. Hansbarger, ’20
ec John Seybert, Jru..............0000 John Seybert Hansel, *17
Mee eon W.. JE ita wcainacdanicibee: Leon W. Harris, °13
Meenry King, Jeni ee Henry K. Hill, ’25
Bey William, Edgvariccis.cscsscosccesesosecessesseaiors Kenneth Hines, ’22
Olbrook, George "Ty Sta cca. George T. Holbrook, ’23
©pkins, Henry Beenie cig Abram Hancock Hopkins, 712
©pkins, John Deeks See Abram Hancock Hopkins, 712
We, Otis Wilson, Fiicisc Ei Aacsoctineh cctaveeet Otis W. Howe, ’24

Son Father
Humphris, Curtis Carlyle, Jr.........0...... Curtis C. Humphris, ’17
Hynson, Richard Washburn, Jr......... *Richard W. Hynson, ’08
James, Robert Bleakley, Jr..i.........ccccsccscscscccsccsoees R. B. James, ’22
TCL: MROMOEG, V MMC OU o...So55ic.cieane pathce ch wikaavexoevidnoesects L. S. Joel, ’22
Johnson, Lucius Edward... *Lucius C. Johnson, ’28
younson, Wiliam Leslie, Jr.................cccccssesees W. L. Johnson, ’26
Jones, Henry Winkelman, Jr..................... Henry W. Jones, ’24
Kaylor, toward Slats oiccecciscseck hseccctsts Omer T. Kaylor, ’11
K, CRDIOR, OU SR RNE A hal hale ccgboteknticntaves Robert S. Keebler, ’08
BE ORRY, “FRC Cai ack ccdeaee stedewibaindt \thadeoven ites Robert G. Kelly, ’21
Kime, Robert Wilburforce.........................6. Robert S. Kime, 716
Kirkpatrick, Thomas Sydnor, Jr............... T. S. Kirkpatrick, °13
Kupfer, William, Crocket................cccccccssseess *Charles Kupfer, 719
LARPS). TASCCTION DG oo. cocices cise Ri ccncceckedsack *Reuben A. Lewis, ’16
ETE FOOT Lies likertratbakaectadicnaiey cheba Frank Love, ’21
McCain, Charles Howard, Jr....... Charles Howard McCain, ’20
McClintock, Everett Miller............ Oliver W. McClintock, ’23
McClintock, Fletcher Talley....William Ewing McClintock, ’18
McDonald, Richard Reeseé...................0008 *O. L. McDonald, 712
MeK gy, Fi erinert Gtr scivacsciccscssescsckcsavensccchatas *K. I. McKay, ’04
McNeer, Selden Spessard, Jr................000 Selden S. McNeer, 716
Mahood, Wilson Straley....................0 *W. Straley Mahood, 718
DARING ATEATOY WV OR an ciois. 5nd, cos -npvosconccsctbeces Bayard L. Malone, ’24
Manning, Preston Cocke, Jr................. Preston C. Manning, ’25
TE is Bai sbi eegvoe devs orth nncasad cacao echsulesees Edward Matz, ’25
BE Ree Ch sdealtnassaotasneustanidesceavebccodussto Guy Noel May, ’26
Maynard, George F., IIT................ esos G. F. Maynard, Jr., ’27
Maynard; William Fas, Uriccs. Scccéccccccsece William H. Maynard, ’26
DE GIDGE. FIT PONY savesinascsusscvescchatcekoboctcceveenss John West Melton, ’22
Ba obtters. Fi resem OT on eh scecc sc ockticedoxe Byron C. Mohler, ’25
Moore, John Owens.................06 Dr. Marshall Abner Moore, ’11
Moyler, James Edward, Jr................. James Edward Moyler, ’21
CORRES et WPI coc licitgtes virkass caso chines Sanoek William Henry Oast, °15
Oast, William Henry, Jr..................0000 William Henry Oast, ’15
Parker, Robert Logan.................. William Franklin Parker, ’20
RNAs PCE CNB oi rans accadosbiadcssbcgchdcesecasce A. G. Paxton, °17
Peters, Herbert Grayson, ITI................. Herbert G. Peters, °17
EA FOOTE. Pa TBE seek cases fo0cc gab akvainnsceaasd codbn ves Isadore Pizitz, ’24
ee SERIE. Be Noa aaa cond y hu giactnchiaccdsabbiasacese Lamar Polk, 715
Pruitt, James Kennedy.................000008 Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, ’11
Prett, vera r 0 By Oi woe ckncscbcndaccscn Dr. Samuel O. Pruitt, 711
PRT Poe NTR FOE Sivcorectin cscs shoveryess\casaess Junius W. Pulley, °13
REMSON” DiGOROre Eig) PEsivcseisiaccajedabicnans Leonard B. Ranson, 712

 

 

Dean Gilliam gives the men of ’53 the word at freshman camp.

[7 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

Sophomore Echols Hansbarger, Jr., whose dad is W. and L..,
20, takes first place in the cross country meet with Davidson.

Son Father
Riddick, Walter Garrett, Jr..............e Walter G. Riddick, ’05
FORE CBRE Ge sckgcicdnseceyetasndsoncnsvacansoniiey Benjamin Haines Rigg, ‘19
Robbins, Edmund Carpentert................ *Joseph C. Robbins, ’20
RGD BMA PRM B 25 i. ncrseostsccbccs civ ceiser coed Augustus Robbins, Jr., ‘18
Rockwell, William James Kenneth........ Paul A. Rockwell, °12
Rolston, Theron Rice, Jr... Dr. Theron R. Rolston, °22
Rushton, Francis Edwards...........cccccceeees J. Frank Rushton, ’23
Oe: ESD RE : a CO OUIED? SEE wnsh ial Gacoakicgienmshans sae Dr. Huston St. Clair, ’22
SSL. PR IASE GeO OB siskaaevinses ces senccendcdpessncme supvaies Elwood H. Seal, °16
Shelton, Barrett.Co, Jiincecccscccsaccscosseseveeei Barrett C. Shelton, ’24
Shropshire, Cameron Edward, Jr............. C. E. Shropshire, ’24
Silverstein, Robert Fisher..............:ccccceeseees *Sam Silverstein, °17
Smith, Douglas McGrudet............:cc:000 Herbert G. Smith, *17
Smith, Ray Sammons,’ Jf...........ccccssccessescecsovsens Ray S. Smith, ’14
Snyder, Clovis Marene..........::.scsseee Harry Edgar Snyder, ‘18
Stewart, Dean Bradley, Jr...........ccccseeereees Dean B. Stewart, °18
Strickler, John Glenwo00d..........cccceeseeeees John O. Strickler, ’27
Strother, William Fuqua.................. John Fuqua Strother, ’21
Stump, James William..............ccceseercsecseneees J. S. Stump, Jr., ’24
Sutherland, Horace Fulton........ *Horace Fulton Sutherland, °17
Thomas, Robert Howe.................0 James Richard Thomas, ’23
Todd, William Stephenson................+4 John Rucker Todd, ‘19
Townsend, William Howard........ Fred DuPre Townsend, '20
Trotter, William Yates, Jr.............+. William Yates Trotter, ’27
Trundle, James Thomas...........ceeeeed A. Dawson Trundle, ’04
Turner, Norfleet Ragland...........cccccceeeeees Norfleet Turner, °24
Vicars, Joseph McFarland............ Marshall Walker Vicars, ’23
Wall, Ashley Stainback...............cccssscesesseess *Hiram P. Wall, 10
Wamsley, James Sanford................ John Herbert Wamsley, 22
Warner, John William...............0 *Dr. John W. Warner, ’03
Wash, Thomas Atwood..........::::00 Dr. Atwood M. Wash, 715
White, James Jones... Dr. T. Preston White, °17
White, Millar Berry, Jr...........ccccccccssscesseesees Millar B. White, ’25
White, William Gibson...........cceeseeneeees Millar B. White, ’25
Whitlock, William Allem................cccccccesereees P. C. Whitlock, °29
Whittle, Randolph Gordon, JT... R. G. Whittle, ’24
Williams, Donald Kingsley................ John Leslie Williams, *17
Winborne, Thomas Packard................ Roger M. Winborne, ‘11
Wood, James Arthur, Jf... James Arthur Wood, ’24
Woodruff, Bruce F.,, Jr.........cccccoscsssscesooees Bruce F. Woodruff, °16
Yerkes, Judson B., [1 Du............scessseseeesees Damon C. Yerkes, °13
Young, John Henry, [1]... csssseeseeeeeseees John H. Young, °19

[8]

   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

DR. HOWE HONORED ON HIS 90th BIRTHDA)

Dr. James Lewis Howe, professor of chemistry, emer
at Washington and Lee, received congratulations on Au
4th from his many friends and admirers on the occasig,
his 90th birthday. While Dr. Howe retired some yearg”
as head of the Chemistry department he continues to Jeg
to senior classes.

Dr. Howe was born in 1859 at Newburyport, Mass
setts, and graduated with an A.B. degree from Ambhers¢
lege. He also holds degrees from Gottingen, the Universi
3erlin and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
a member of many scientific societies both in this eoy
and abroad. Besides his bibliographies on platinum yy
Dr. Howe’s writings include several text books and gg
butions to scientific journals.

 

W. and L. STUDENTS STAND WELL IN BAR EX;

Thirty-four out of 49 students from the Washington
Lee law school were successful in passing the Virginia §
bar examinations in June. This successful percentage ¢
compares favorably with the figure of 56 per cent for the
tire number taking the examinations. Out of a total of
who stood the test, only 164 passed.

 

“NEWS OF 50 YEARS AGO”
(Rockbridge County News, August 14, 1949)

“The alumni of Washington and Lee residing in Lexing
met Saturday morning in the office of D. E. Moore, Esq)
organized a local alumni association. D. E. Moore was eh
president and Frank Moore, secretary. Robert White
Crum, son of Mrs. R. Barton McCrum, was selected for
Washington and Lee scholarship next year.”

 

WILTON GARRISON, ’28, WRITES ARTICLE

Wilton Mays (Red) Garrison was the author of ané
in the October 29 issue of The Saturday Evening Post
Coach Frank Howard of Clemson College. Garrison 1s Sp
editor of The Charlotte, North Carolina, Observer and)
contributed three articles to sport magazines so far this y

 

«<i
\) ‘2

‘
* »
. *
: : ‘ 3 ;
ny 4 >
2 2BA. At Ba

      
  

Pajamas, torchlights, 13 Club shenanigans... the Hon
coming pep rally hasn’t changed. 4

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Freshman Scholarships

By John French, ’50

 

Mr. Colin Campbell, Jr., of Birmingham, Michigan, received
a War Memorial Scholarship

 

With the opening of Washington and Lee’s third century,
a total of 27 endowed scholarships were awarded to members
of the freshman class. Many of these awards were made pos-
sible by Bicentennial contributions. However, even with this
strong advance in our scholarship situation, a great deal re-
mains to be accomplished in the light of the University’s ulti-
mate scholarship goal.

The main problem which presents itself is the $100 raise
in tuition, effective this term, bringing the year’s fee to $450.00.
Although this figure is no higher than that charged by com-
parable schools in the North, it is one of the highest figures
in the South today. As a result, without direct scholarship as-
sistance many highly desirable candidates find themselves
unable to enter Washington and Lee. With this in mind, the
Bicentennial! campaign stressed gifts to the scholarship fund,
and was, to some extent, successful. Contributions to this very
Mmediate need and cause almost completely overshadowed
donations to other phases of the campaign.

Of the scholarships inaugurated this year a good many
Were War Memorial awards—those set up in memory of
alumni who lost their lives in the Second World War. Each
“8 an interesting story behind it, and the benefit derived
fom these gifts is immeasurable. They have gone a long
Way in helping to develop the talent and capability of many
Serving boys who, without that assistance, would not have
ad the privilege of coming to Washington and Lee.
ae Yc. and in years to come, the need for these schol-
versit, eo than ever betore in the history of the Uni-
ay ne cause is the raise in tuition; another 1s brought

hte ad the approaching termination of the G.I. sill of
Year a uch has assisted so many students in the past. Next
€ number of men on this plan will be practically nil.

Therefore, a great new field of needy men will arise, and with
scholarships, and scholarships alone, may this field be cul-
tivated. The means of providing this cultivation is one of
the main problems facing Washington and Lee today.

The scholarships which were awarded at the beginning of
the fall session this year and the recipients are

Mary Magruder Laughlin Scholarship to Charlie Fuller
McNutt, Jr., Charleston, West Virginia.

Thomas Greene Terry Scholarship to
sarr., Jr., Danville, Virginia.

Arthur B. Koontz, Jr., Scholarship to J. Wilmer Benjamin,
Lewisburg, West Virginia.

Alfred I. duPont Scholarships to Leo Barrington, Wash-
ington, D.C.; and Marvin Hauser Anderson, Cambridge,
Maryland.

Cary T. Grayson Scholarships to Harrison Steele Dey, Jr.,
Staunton, Virginia; Robert Batson Hall, Winchester, Vir-
ginia; Bentz Buell Howard, Jr., Schoolfield, Virginia; and
James Lee Sheets, Hopewell, Virginia.

William W. Boxley Scholarship to Loyd Lynwood Wil-
kinson, Danville, Virginia.

Julian LeRoy Dart, Jr., Scholarship to Opie Weems Hollo-
well, Birmingham, Alabama.

Elizabeth Cave Drye Scholarship to William Durwood
Bruce, Meherrin, Virginia.

Charles Poellnitz Johnston Scholarship to Charles Ashley
Stainback, Jr., Somerville, Tennessee.

Edward von Harten Ladd Scholarship to Houston Evins
Hamm, Huntsville, Alabama.

Phillip W. Murray, Jr., Scholarship to George Treat Hol-
brook, Jr., Wethersfield, Connecticut.

srantley Francis

(Continued from page 13)

 

 

Mr. Charles Henry Tyldsley of Norfolk, Virginia, received
a War Memorial Scholarship

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

The Post-War University Co-op

By John French, ’50

 

Coffee at the co-op, a mid-morning breather.

 

In September, 1946, as Washington and Lee returned to
its pre-war size, the building which before the war was
known as the old “Beanery” took on a new air. It became the
new University Co-op, with new environment, new creden-
tials, and a new service for students of the University.

At this time, the school took over the reins of manage-
ment of the Co-op, and appointed as its manager, Ralph Da-
vis, a student. Inside the new home, Manager Davis set up a
semi-complete supply of books and supplies, a coke machine,
and a limited line of novelties and odds and ends. This was
only the beginning, however, of what the Co-op was to be-
come.

During that first year, the total amount of sales at the
store amounted to around $50,000, but increased to a little over
$100,000 the following year, and to a new high of over $140,-
000 worth of business during the past school year. The rea-
son for this was the steady development of the “Supply Store,”
into a complete shopping center and gathering place for
students.

The first move on the part of the University was to have
the store unincorporated from its pre-war status. All per-
sonnel were put on standard salaries, and in this way it was
possible to improve the quality of goods at low prices which
are today offered to student-purchasers. Also, quantity of
selection has been increased to such an extent that it has
become necessary to utilize almost three-times the space
which was used in 1946.

During that first year, a complete soda fountain was added,
along with a kitchen to back it up, so that anything from cokes
to complete meals may now be obtained from the same place.
The line of novelty and drug goods was considerably in-
creased, now offering anything from a bar of soap to glass-
ware with the University emblem engraved upon it.

In 1948, it became so over-crowded in the upstairs room,
that all of the books and other school supplies were moved
downstairs into the basement. A staff of two is employed at all

[ 10 |

   
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
    
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
    
   
   
 
  
   

times to take care of this room, and its volume of businegg
brought it up to a parallel with any book store in Lexing

This year, the officials of the Co-op have gone gq ,
further—a barber shop has been installed in the back
of the building, complete with two chairs. Prices are the
as in town, and two barbers are in full-time employmep
keep the Mink-hair in line. 4

In February of this year, while the store was in the.
dle of its great transition, Ralph Davis, who had mang
the Co-op since its grand re-opening in 1946, resigned.
University, in an effort to make the organization even str,
er, apointed Fred Carmichael, who at that time was
structor in the School of Commerce, to take over Dayjs”

The new manager immediately put the entire by
through a complete renovation in an effort to moderni
to the extent of which it was then operating. New lights y
installed throughout, the kitchen was completely done
and added to, and a more enticing paint job added ¢&
to the surroundings.

In an effort to serve the students something more th
complete line of drug goods and food, the Co-op has
adopted a policy of service complete in every way. Five)
dents are employed at the store during their free he
throughout the day, and in this way quick, efficient sé
can be offered with the least effort and the most good+
Students’ wives are used to help with the books and in
supply part of the store, and a few carefully picked te
people round out the staff whose key-note is “service.” ©

In this manner the Co-op has grown up with its new hi
to become one of the most important parts of student-lif
performs not only a service to the men, but a gathering p
for them, the likes of which had never been had on the W
L. campus before the war. Between classes, in the midd
examinations, and for that late morning “after an 8:25” br
fast, it has become the place to go, and it has grown with
student body to meet the growing demand.

 

Homecoming crowd

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Resume of Fall Sports

Gil Bocetti—Quarterback

 

 

Washington and Lee has already swung into its fall se-
mester with a crowded schedule of fall sport events of all
types and varieties. Although the General teams have not al-
ways ended up in the win column, interest in the many con-
tests has proved itself high.

* * * * ok

Freshman Football

Under the direction of Con Davis, new freshman foot-
ball and varsity basketball coach, the Brigadiers of 1949
compose a football team with many promising prospects for
next year’s varsity. The 30 members of the freshman team
hail from seven different states, extending from Michigan to
Massachusetts, and from Alabama to New York. Of these
30, Davis sees 15 players as very likely material to take over
key varsity spots in the next three years.

The team is sparked by the performance of Randy Broyles,
the most publicized player to come out of West Virginia in
Many years. Broyles, who takes one of the halfback slots,
Was sought by at least a dozen different schools before de-
ciding to come to W. and L,, and his prospects for the fu-
ture are unlimited. The other halfback on the team is Jack
Garst, Boones Mill, Virginia, boy with lots of spark. Leading
‘corer for the Brigadiers so far this year is their fullback, Wes
Abrams, who hails from Cumberland, Maryland. It is ex-
pected that he will probably be switched to halfback when
he joins the varsity.

In the line, outstanding play on the part of the two
tackles, Jack Delahunty and Dan Popovich, has helped in
the success enjoyed by the team so far. Both boys are rugged,
and have played almost every minute of every game. An All-
»€Xas end from Forth Worth, Bob Thomas, has also been an
ble aid to the team, while the heaviest man on the

» <£U-pound Bill Stanley, has shown himself as quite

capable at the center slot. He is especially adapt at line-back-
ing.

In their three games played thus far, the Baby Generals
have a record of two wins against one loss. The only loss
was to the West Virginia freshmen in a heartbreaker. W. and
L.. lead up to the last three minutes of play when West Vir-
ginia rolled over a touchdown at the last moment to take the

game by a slim margin of 19-14. Only fifteen men were used

by W. and LL. during the entire course of the game.

In winning the opener, they out-matched the Richmond
frosh throughout the entire game and emerged with the 14-7
win. Against Staunton Military Academy, the Brigadiers were
given trouble in the first half, but came through with a valiant
rally in the last section to down the SMA boys, 28-14.

* * * *k x

Soccer

With an off-again-on-again record for the year, Coach
Norm Lord’s Soccer team is an example this year of seasoned
players with a love for the game. For the third straight sea-
son, the team is captained by Jim Trundle, who has held the
honor since re-organization of the booters in 1947. Against
Virginia in the opener, the boys showed the spirit, but were
out-matched for a 3-1 loss. The next week they bounced back,
downing Roanoke College to the tune of 4-2. The splurge was

 

 

Henry Mastrian—Fullback

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

short-lived, however, as they dropped the next game to a
strong North Carolina University team, again by a 3-1 score;
and then fell before Roanoke College in a return engagement,
3-1.

eS (eS ae Se

Cross Country

The 1949 Cross Country runners have shown themselves
more individually than collectively. Their season record thus
far shows two wins against the same number of losses. On Oc-
tober 8, they took the opening meet from Hampden-Sydney
with a 26-29 score. The following week they squeezed past
Randolph Macon in Ashland, 27-28. In their last two meets
they have been out-run, though; first by the University of Vir-
ginia, 49-21, and Homecoming week-end by the Davidson
Wildcats at half-time by a 42-20 score.

EI ae oe ee

Varsity Football

With a team led by brilliant sophomore quarterback Gil
Bocetti, the 1949 General football squad has made a showing
much more impressive than the statistics show. The record
through Homecoming showed a total of only two wins
against four defeats, but the stories behind these games show
a great deal more about the team.

Coach Barclay, in his first year as head football coach,
has worked the team entirely off the split “T” formation. The
emphasis has been neither on passing nor running plays, but
the two manners of attack have been intermingled in order
to bring the best possible results.

Bocetti, an 18-year-old sophomore from McKeesport,
Pennsylvania, has run the squad on the field during almost
every minute of playing time. An expert passer, who inspires
confidence from the ten men playing with him, he is claimed
by Barclay as the greatest football player he has ever coached.
Gil’s activities have gained recognition throughout the East,
and with two years yet to play, W. and L. is looking toward
a possible All-American berth before very long.

* K a * K

A short resume of the first six games of the year:

Furman: In the season’s opener, the Generals surprised ev-
eryone by rolling to a 27-7 victory over the team from South
Carolina. Bocetti’s performance was outstanding, as W. and
L. came back after trailing 7-0 in the early minutes of the
game. From that time on, Furman was never in the game. By
half time, Furman’s lead had been cut to one point, and the
last two quarters saw the Generals roll over for three more
touchdowns. The attack was carried on mostly on the ground,
only six passes being attempted; and a total of 225 yards was
gained by rushing.

West Virginia: The following week-end the Generals
traveled to Charleston to meet their ancient rivals from West
Virginia. A brilliant fight was put up before the final gun
blasted, leaving W. and L. on the short end of a 28-20 score.
It was a game of freak incidents: 190 yards being lost on
penalties, and 12 times the ball was lost as a result of fumbles.
The fighting Blue was behind throughout the game, but never
stopped fighting. Highlight of the game was an 84-yard run
for a touchdown by fleet-footed Jim Gallivan.

Georgia Tech: The worst beating the Big Blue has taken
all year was at the hands of the Yellow Jackets who simply
out-classed the squad after a slow first quarter. The Gen-
erals held their opponents scoreless throughout the first
quarter, but after that Georgia Tech went on to win by a
36-0 count. One highlight of the game came when a double

[ 12]

   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

lateral play resulted in a TD by Bocetti,

although jt
then called back on a penalty.

Virginia: Despite some superb playing at various Poin
the game, W. and L,. fell before the traditional rivals
Charlottesville by a score of 27-7. It all boiled down tg a
of too many mistakes and too many fumbles on the De
the jittery boys in Blue. In the second period, the Cena
climaxed an 84-yard drive to score and tie up the game
the moment. At the end of the third period the team ¢py
by only seven points, 14-7, but in the last quarter the Wap
ran wild. A special feature of the game came after the
whistle while Ed Bessel was running for pay dirt wip
pass he had caught in the final moments. Tackle Bob Spy
who was watching the game from the side-lines, ran ontg
field and tackled the touchdown-bound Bessel on the ¥
yard line, causing him to fumble. Then the Wahoos recoyg
the ball over the goal, and still got the TD. Not until;
days later was it discovered that Smith had been the tye
man on the field for Washington and Lee.

7

George Washington: The week-end before Homecon
the Generals traveled up to Washington to take on a slig
favored team from George Washington in their second m
game of the year. In one of the closest battles of the seag
they lost to the home team, because of two-extra-point
ures by a score of 21-19, as GW made each one of its cony
sions. Both teams had three touchdowns. Quarterback
cetti set-up two of the touchdowns, and passed to Tram
for the third. In the last quarter, the inspired W. and L.
drove a total of 99 yards from its own one-yard line to sé
for the final TD, and were again going when the game en¢
In first downs and yards gained rushing, George Washingt

.

 

     

DSR — “ ;
Gene Bennett—Halfback

 

 

Ray Leister—Halfback

 

was out-played as shown by the final statistics of 13 first
downs for the Generals to 7 for GW, and 246 yards gained
rushing, while the home squad gained only 176.

Davidson: The Big Blue let themselves completely loose
on Homecoming Week-end to give the alumni the finest
Homecoming show seen on Wilson field in many decades
when they smothered the Davidson Wildcats by a count of
53-0. Forty-five hundred students and alumni saw the game
which was played on a muddy field, although this in no way
stopped the attack. Davidson was never in the ball game,
and the closest they came to scoring was in the first quarter
when they drove to the W. and L,. 22, only to lose the ball.
The ball started rolling after five minutes of play when Bo-
cetti took the ball for 60-yards to mark up the first TD. After
that, everything went fast and furiously, as Bocetti picked
up a net yardage of 340 yards, and personally ran and passed
for four of the touchdowns. Every man was an individual
Tiger to the meek-looking Wildcats, and the climax came
when the Generals went over for the last touchdown in the
last minute of play, while people were filing out of their seats.

Virginia Tech: The Generals were favored to win over
VPI but past records have meant little to the two teams in
this annual game and this was showed once again on the
field in Lynchburg. Tech, which according to Coach Bar-
clay “has a much better team than its record indicates,”
battled the Generals on even terms throughout the first half.
In the third period, starting on their own 28-yard line the
Gobblers went all the way to score. Most of the yardage was
Sained by passes.

Washington and Lee showed again the spirit which has
characterized the team all season by coming back late in the
fourth period to deadlock the score at 6-6. The Generals’
march covered over 60 yards, brought out Bocetti’s gambling
Mstinct by running or passing three times on fourth down,
and endede 45 seconds before the end of the game with Bocetti
Plunging over for the final yard.

Delaware: One of the East’s finest independent teams,
the Blue Hens managed to score their first win over a Wash-
‘gton and Lee eleven here on November 12. The visitors
Scored twice within the first 10 minutes of play—taking full

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

advantage of their tricky reverses—and then staved off the
Generals. Three times during the afternoon the W. and L.
offense clicked for sustained drives and carried the Generals
deep into the enemy territory. After drives of 87 and 64 yards,
which did not yield scores, Washington and Lee scored in
the fourth quarter when Vic Marler, Eddystone, Pennsylvania,
took a pitch-out from Gil Bocetti and scored on an eighty-
vard sprint.

Richmond (as we go to press): The Generals ended their
season Thanksgiving Day with a convincing 35-14 victory
over the University of Richmond. And with the victory the
W. and L. squad cinched third place in the Southern Confer-
ence,

Richmond scored early in the first quarter but the Gen-
erals showed the spirit which has marked their play all sea-
son by coming from behind and winning easily.

Concluding their careers were six seniors: Ends Jim Fahey
and Jack Crawford; Backs Vic Marler, Henry Mastriann,
Gene Bennett and Frank Davidson.

 

Freshman Scholarships

(Continued from page 9)

Robert E. Ridenhour, III, Scholarship to Thomas Kyle
Creson, Memphis, Tennessee.

World War II Scholarships to Colin Campbell, Jr., Birm-
ingham, Michigan; Alexander De Volpi, New York, New
York; James Charles Monzella, Bessemer, Alabama; Bever-
ly Gray Stephenson, Wakefield, Virginia; and Charles Henry
Tyldsley, Norfolk, Virginia.

James R. Caskie Scholarship to James Alfred Arthur, III,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Carter Glass Scholarship to John Hooper McNeil, Blacks-
burg, Virginia.

George Martin Bohman, Jr., Scholarship to Kenneth
Franklin Spence, Jr., Hagerstown, Maryland.

Joe Higgins Bagley Scholarship to Erwin Brady Bartusch,
Memphis, Tennessee.

Samuel Tipton Jones, Jr., Scholarship to Clark Proctor
Garrecht, Memphis, Tennessee.

Leo F. Reinartz, Jr., Scholarship to Gray Charles Castle,
Arlington, Virginia.

 

 

Talbot Trammell catches a pass in the Davidson game and
is on his way.

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

With the Local Chapters

APPALACHIAN

Deans Frank J. Gilliam and James Leyburn represented
the university at the meeting of the Appalachian chapter of
alumni in Marion, Virginia, on September 10. The business
meeting and social hour were held at the home of Judge W.
V. Birchfield, ’18, past president of the organization. Officers
elected for the ensuing year are Marion Sanders, °17, Presi-
dent; J. Aubrey Matthews, ’21, Vice-President; Lt. Gov. L.
Preston Collins, ’20; alumni representative; and Francis R.
Russell, °43, Secretary-Treasurer. Following the business
meeting an excellent banquet was served at Hemlock Haven,
in the appropriately decorated dining room to fifty-six alumni,
their wives and guests, Judge Birchfield, presiding. The sound-
color Washington and Lee film was shown. The evening was
concluded at Holston Hills Country Club with the alumni
and their guests enjoying the facilities of the club.

en: Se. Ae ae

CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

One hundred or more alumni from all parts of West Vir-
ginia met at the Kanawha Country Club for the annual smoker
and dinner of the local association on September 30, the eve
of the West Virginia-Washington and Lee football game.
Frank Bell, Jr., ’43, President, presided. Principal speakers
were R. A. “Capt. Dick” Smith and George Barclay, head
football coach. Similar meetings have been held on a corre-
sponding date for many years and everyone present agreed
this was one of the best.

The meeting was preceded in the afternoon by a golf match
between West Virginia and Washington and Lee alumni. The
“Old Generals” came out victors in this one, 17-11. Kelley
Reed, ’37, had the low medal score.

x * * *

CLEVELAND AND NORTHERN OHIO

Alumni of Cleveland and Northern Ohio held their an-
nual fall meeting at the University Club, Cleveland, on Mon-
day evening, November 7.

Election of officers brought forth Samuel P. McChesney,
Jr., ’°38, as president for the coming year, and Thomas L.
Stillwell, ’44, as secretary-treasurer. McChesney succeeds
Thomas M. Harman, ’25, and Stillwell succeeds McChesney.

About twenty-five members and their wives gathered for
cocktails and dinner at the University Club to hear Lea Booth,
’40, director of public relations at Washington and Lee, dis-
cuss the impact of the bicentennial program upon the Uni-
versity.

A luncheon meeting during the Christmas holiday season
is being planned as the next get-together for Cleveland
“Minks.”

es we ee

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

The Emmett W. Poindexters, B.A. ’20, LL.B. ’23, were
hosts at a Washington and Lee alumni picnic, including wives,
children, etc., at their summer home “Sunlit Farm,” in Put-
nam County, New York, on Saturday, July 23. Badminton,
ping-pong, horseshoes, softball, swimming, eating and drink-
ing were thoroughly enjoyed by all. The singing could be
heard all over the Hudson Valley by old timers like Rip Van

[ 14 ]

  
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
   

Winkle and the Headless Horseman. The rendition of «
Swing,” “Alma Mater” and “Drunk Last Night” were simp
superb. The party broke up about 11:30 p.m. The hosts
say they would like to make it an annual affair.

Pe UR re Se

The twenty-fifth annual dinner of the Washington
Lee Alumni in New York was held at The Columbia G
versity Club, New York, New York, on Friday, Novem}
4, 1949 at 7:30 p.m. The dinner was preceded by an inform
reception which started at 6:30 p.m. |

W. J. L. Patton, ’22, President of the local associatia
presided at the dinner with Dean James G. Leyburn rep
senting the University as guest speaker, and Mr. Henry Ire
representing the V.M.I. alumni. There were fifty Washing¢
and Lee alumni present. 2
At a short business meeting immediately following

 

The crack marching band—with drum majorettes—
Charleston, West Virginia, High School, get ready to taket
spotlight between the halves of the Homecoming game

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—— ll

_... the following officers were unanimously elected to
Bee tor the ensuing year:

an _.. Patton, ’22, President, Emmett W. Poindexter,
a Secreta [reasurer, and the following Vice-Presidents:
a aed Wurzburger, 31, New York City; W. L. Webster, ’12,
- etate New York; Hamilton G. Disbrow, ’40, New Jersey;
# ard T. Brown, 719, Connecticut; and William T. Owen,
_ nd. Members of Alumni Council, three year

“ee Long ; io ath : ;
Castner, ‘29; William M. Farrar, Jr., “19; and

% - James
term). - 4 aa 197
roy . fal o
A. H. © Oi ie ae ee
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
The summer meeting of the Richmond chapter was held

at Hanover Wayside, about five miles north of
city limits on Route 2. Freshmen expecting
niversity in September, and their parents were
invited. The gathering was an informal get-to-
the only business transacted was the election of
the ensuing year, as follows: William B. Jacobs,
Frank Jones, Jr., °38, Vice-President, Adrian
Treasurer; and V. Cassell Adamson, ’37,

en August
the Richm«: I
-o enter the |
among thos:
gether and
efacers for
"29, Preside! ”s
Bendheim, Jr., “42;
Secretary
Tentativ:
meetings: \

plans were made for the following schedule of

ember 23—Smoker, which will probably be held
at the Hermitage Club; November 24—Reception and Tea
Dance at the Jefferson Hotel immediately following the foot-
ball game; Washington and Lee-Rich-
mond Basketball Cafeteria; May, 1950—
Spring meeti and officers.

ebruary 22, 1950

Dinner, Ewarts
election of

* * *k * *

As tentat
in connectio!
University o!
Byrd Hotel
informal discussion of Washington and Lee athletics.
dent Bill Jacobs presided. Immediately following the foot-
ball game several hundred alumni, their and friends
gathered at the Thomas Jefferson Hotel for a victory party.

ely planned, two excellent meetings were held
with the Thanksgiving football game with the
Richmond. On Wednesday night at the William
pproximately 100 alumni enjoyed a smoker and
Presi-

wives

* * * * aS

WASHINGTON, D.C.

On October 20th, the night preceding the George Wash-
ington-Washington and Lee football game over 100 alumni
and their wives met in the Louis Seize Room of the Shore-
ham Hotel cocktails and a delightfully informal gather-
Ing. The o1 business transacted was the election of the
following officers of the local chapter for the coming year:
Harry B. Breithaupt, ’36, President; A. Dawson Trundle,
4, Vice-President; and Richard T. Wright, ’46, Secretary.

Harry St. G. T. Carmichael, ‘99
Died on September 29

Harry »t. George

Un: Tucker Carmichael, member of the
-Niversity board of

—. 7 Trustees since 1938, died at Bowling
-  » aentucky, Thursday, September 29 following an illness
~ *€veral months. Funeral services were held at Christ’s Epis-
“pal Churc! in Bowling Green Friday morning and at 4:00
‘Saturday in Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, Lexington,
.‘Fginia. Burial was in Stonewall Jackson cemetery, Lex-
Mgton, Virgini :

Mr. Car

ge irmichael was born in Lexington, September 23
55], the on]

child of the late Mr. and Mrs. John Carmichael.

 

Harry St. G. T. Carmichael, ’99

 

His mother was before marriage Miss Virginia Tucker, a
daughter of John Randolph Tucker, Dean of the Washington
and Lee School of Law, 1873-1897.

After graduating from Washington and Lee in 1899. Mr.
Carmichael was associated as civil engineer for a number
of years with Mason and Hanger in railroad and other
construction work. In 1920 he became connected with the
Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company at Kyrock, Kentucky, of
which he was vice-President at the time of his death.

In addition to his service as a member of the University
Board of Trustees since 1938, Mr. Carmichael served as a
member of the Alumni Board of Trustees from 1934 to 1937.
and as class agent from 1933 to 1938.

He was twice married. His first wife was Miss Anna
Heitzel of Martinsburg, West Virginia. After her death he
married Miss Lala Stanrod of Kentucky who survives him.
He leaves also three sons, St. George Tucker Carmichael of
Lexington, Kentucky, Stanrod Carmichael, B.A., 47, and John
Carmichael, ’50.

In the passing of Harry Carmichael the University has
lost an alumnus whose devotion and faithful service and in-
terest in its affairs cannot be over-estimated. His genius for
friendship is evidenced by the host of those who knew and
loved him and feel that his loss is irreplaceable.

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1897
Edward Wohlwender was
honored by the Columbus,
Georgia, Lawyers Club on
the occasion of the celebra-

|

Class Notes

 

Let us remind you again that the material from
which these notes was compiled consists of let-
ters received by the class agents during the last

   
 
 

Company, Brandt and *
ming Streets, Oregon
Detroit Michigan, ;

Rev. Thomas B.
minister of the Rive

tion of his fifty years of con-
tinuous service in the prac-
tice of law in that city.
Throughout his career as a
lawyer, he has had a large,
lucrative and general prac-
tice in the field of both crim-
inal and civil law. Mr. Wohl-

 

spring and summer and from questionnaires re-

turned by alumni during that period. If notes

are not up-to-date, we would appreciate any
further information you can let us have.

 
  
   
 

Presbyterian Church,
ville, North Carolina. H
three sons, Samuel, Th
and John, the elder a
Consul of the State De
ment, now in F
Germany; the second

 

 

wender has not confined his

activities exclusively to the practice of law. Beginning in 1900
he served for fourteen years as a member of the General As-
sembly of Georgia, both as Representative from Muscogee
County and as Senator from his District. He served for three
years on the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue
of Muscogee County, and again, in 1941, represented Musco-
gee County in the General Assembly.

Quoting from the lengthy commendation of the Lawyers
Club: “One of the most striking characteristics of Mr. Wohl-
wender is his personal integrity. He is absolutely honest, frank
and fair.... Each member of the Bar has felt the strength of
his character, the influence of his personality, the fullness of
his heart and the warmth of his soul, We, the members of
the Columbus Lawyers Club, are privileged to pay tribute on
this occasion to Ed Wohlwender, Sr., because we all love,
admire and respect him.”

1906

B. J. Mayer is still practicing law in La Grange, Georgia,
as a member of the firm of Lovejoy and Mayer.

1909

Amos L. Herold is head of the English Department, Ar-
kansas College, Batesville, Arkansas.. In the August issue of
the Alumni Magazine, through error, it was stated that he was
head of the History Department of that institution. We
apologize for the mistake.

J. J. Forrer is still maintainance engineer
for the Department of Highways in Virginia,
which office he has held since 1922.

1910

Charles P. (Chuck) Robinson has been with
The Better Business Service Company, Park
Building, Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania, for the
past twenty-seven years. He has two daughters
and is a three-times grandfather.

1911

Edward R. Molesworth has been in the
lumber business ever since leaving Washing-
ton and Lee. He is now president and man-
ager of The Teachout Sash, Door and Glass

 

ticing law in Cag
North Carolina, and the third, in business in San Fre

  
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
 
 
  

Charles E. Peters is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir
with offices at 511 Boxley Building. :

1912

Rt. Rev. Lloyd R. Craighill, Episcopal Church Bishe
Anking, China, was a visitor to Lexington during the
mer. He has had a ministry for over 40 years in China, ¥
he has been bishop since 1940. He and Mrs. Craighill exp
to return to China as soon as conditions allow.

J. Samuel Sherertz is now located for the general pr
of law at Number 28a Church Avenue, $.W. His home
has recently been changed to 2202 Sherwood Avenue,
Roanoke, Virginia.

Arlos J. Harbert was elected last fall for the fifth con
tive four year term as judge of The Criminal Court of I
son County, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1914

; Lee R. Grabill, Jr., is with the legal department, f
division E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, Wilmit
Delaware. He names a number of Washington and :
in the duPont offices in Wilmington, among them:
H. Hawkins, ’30, Fred S. Johnson, 11,
A. Milliner, Jr., ’31, Charlie Switzer, 15
Ki Williams, 15.

George L. Kerns spent 6 Va years as @
dependent “faith missionary” in India.
been back at home on furlough for the
four years but hopes to return to India
further missionary work. Address: 4208
Avenue, Spring Hill, West Virginia.

7:

Henry P. Carrington has been with
Gas and Fuel Associates in Maryland,
Virginia, producing coal, for many years.
name of the organization has changed s¢
times during that period the, above
the latest.

1916

Sam P. Kohen is Director of Claims

 

——

«oe in a district office of Veterans Administration 1114 Com-
Bece Street, Dallas 2, Texas. He is responsible for all death
ms of compensation, insurance and burial for the States
‘i Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.

R. Hugh Jarvis is president of Freeport Coal Company,
295 High Street, Morgantown, West Virginia.

_C. Rivers is in the public relations field, specializing in
the direction of fund-raising activities for constructive causes.
He has an apartment in New York at 250 Riverside Drive
and a country place at Smallwood, New York.

H. J. Kiser is a member of the law firm of Kiser & Kiser,
First National Bank Building, Wise, Virginia.

1917

Judge Paul D. Barns has resigned as a member of the state
supreme court of Florida to teach at the University of Miami

law school.

H. J. Blackford has been in the investment business since
the end of World War I, first in New York and since 1922 in
Spartanburg, South Carolina. He has a married daughter, two
married sons and three grandchildren.

R. Bruce Morrison has lived in Lexington for the past
twenty-five years and is engaged in the insurance business. He
also devotes some of his time to the Rockbridge National
Bank and does some farming on the side. He and his wife
live on their farm, which is just outside the corporate limits

of Lexington.

E. L. (Ned) Hix has been with the Electro Metallurgical
Company, a division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corpora-
tion, ever since leaving W. and L,., and is now head of the
Special Alloys Division. He has extra curricula activities as
president of the Niagara Chapter Sons of American Revolu-
tion, director in the New York State Society, and for the
coming year is General Chairman for the 1950 Red Cross
Fund Raising Campaign. Address: 922 McKinley Avenue,
Niagara Falls, New York.

Homer A. Jones is president and executive chairman of
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia-Ten-
nessee. His oldest son, Homer, Jr., graduated from the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School in 1942, lives in Bristol, is mar-
ried and has two little girls. The younger son, after almost
three years war service, has recently graduated from the
architectural school at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

1918

Fulton W. Hoge is a member of the law firm of William-

Bor 10Re & Curry, 417 South Hill Street, Los Angeles, Cali-
ornia.

1919

A. A. Lander and his son are in the industrial development
and construction business in Dallas, Texas. They build large
Warehouses and factory buildings, which they lease to na-

oa Concerns. Address: 1132 Liberty Bank Building, Dallas,
€Xas.

1920

N Dr. Giles S. Terry has practiced medicine in Scarsdale,
fan York, since 1932, except for three years in the Navy,
43-1946. He is married and has a son 16 years old and a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

daughter 11. Address: Chateau Lafayette Apartments, Scars-
dale, New York.

Bill Farrar is in investment securities with Schwabacher
& Company, 14 Wall Street, New York 5, New York. He has
three children, Mary is 19, Bill, 18, and Nancy, 16. He says
he is, “a Damned Yankee, thank you, but a rebel at heart.”

W. F. Barron, Rome Coca-Cola Bottling Company, Rome,
Georgia, has a son, W. F., Jr., who finished his freshman year
at Washington and Lee in June. He and his wife were in
Lexington for the Bicentennial Reunion.

Frank H. Jacobs, Jr., is a member of the law firm of Jacobs
and Cameron, Bel Air, Maryland.

Dr. George A. Mears, took his medical degree from Syra-
cuse University after leaving Washington and Lee and is now
practicing his profession at 46 Haywood Street, Asheville,
North Carolina.

M. Porter Sutton is with the Applied Physics Laboratory,
Johns Hopkins University, 8621 Georgia Avenue, Silver
Spring, Maryland.

Howard P. Arnest has been practicing law in Portland,
Oregon, since the summer of 1919, and is pleased with the
Northwest and Portland and thinks it is the part of the
Country with a future. Address: Yeon Building, Portland 4,
Oregon.

James E. Moore is with Minter Homes Corporation, lum-
ber, building supplies, custom and stock work, Huntington,
West Virginia.

Leigh Hanes, A.B., ’20, M.A., ’38, poet laureate of Virginia
by joint resolution of the Virginia Legislature, has recently
been elected president and editor of The Lyric Associates,
Inc., Foundation for Traditional Poetry, a newly-endowed
foundation organized by Virginia Kent Cummins, of New
York City. The foundation has taken over complete owner-
ship and management of the Lyric magazine which will con-
tinue to be published in Roanoke, Virginia, and issued for
the past twenty years, under the editorship of Mr. Hanes. He
is author of two collections of verse with a third due from
the press this year and has long been known as one of Vir-
ginia’s most distinguished poets. Address: Box 2552, Roanoke,
Virginia.

Edward G. Bailey has been with Federal Housing Admin-
istration since 1935 and is now classified as chief valuator in
the Richmond, Virginia, office. Residence: 5504 Bewdley Road,
Richmond, Virginia.

1921

Sherman Ballard, Peterstown, West Virginia, attorney,
was elected governor of the 273rd Rotary district at the Ro-
tary International convention held in June at Madison Square
Garden. As governor of the 273rd Rotary District, he will
coordinate the work of the 56 Rotary clubs in his district and
will pay each of them a visit during his year of office. Mr.
Ballard is a member of the House of Delegates of the West
Virginia Legislature.

Charley Higby Smith is Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. Address:
Box 768 Franklin Station, Washington 4, D.C.

Robert G. Kelly was in Lexington the latter part of June,
with his son, who will enter the law school in the fall. Gradu-
ating from Princeton in June with the A.B. degree, Robert,

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jr., will be a third generation student, his grandfather having
been graduated for the law school in 93. Bob Kelly, Sr., is a
member of the law firm of Jackson, Kelly, Morrison and
Moxley, 1601 Kanawha Valley Building, Charleston 22, West
Virginia.

Noble B. Hendrix is dean of students at the University
of Alabama, University, Alabama.

1922

Robert M. Bear is head of the department of psychology,
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire.

W. F. McCann has been employed with the New York
Central Railroad for the past twenty-two years. His address
is 413 Northview Avenue, New Castle, Pennsylvania.

R. E. Sherrill is still at the University of Pittsburgh, where
he is head of the Geology Department.

Matthew G. Henderson is secretary and treasurer of The
Reliance Press, printers and engravers, 410 Plume Street,
Norfolk, Virginia.

1923

Colonel Andrew Howell Harriss, Jr., was among the 31
persons decorated in the name of King George for magnif-
icent war services by the British Ambassador, Sir Oliver
Franks, at the British Embassy in May, 1949. After six years
service in World War II—four years overseas—he was in-
activated in December, 1946, and is now with the Purchasing
Department of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company,
Wilmington, North Carolina, as storekeeper. Address: 106
Arden Road, Glen Arden, Wilmington, North Carolina.

James R. Thomas is manager of the Southwest Mortgage
Loan Office of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Com-
pany, with offices at 902 First National Bank Building, Fort
Worth, Texas. His son is a freshman at Washington and Lee,
and having somewhat outgrown his father, being 6’ 2”, and
weighing 190 pounds, looks like a good prospect for the
freshman football team.

Edward Aull is boys’ adviser and head of the history de-
partment, Phillips High School, Birmingham, Alabama. Ad-
dress: 1210 South 2lst Place, Birmingham, Alabama.

Dr. John H. Bonner is practicing medicine in Elizabeth
City, North Carolina, with offices in the Carolina Building.
His 18 year old daughter finished her freshman year at Salem
College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, in June.

R. Maurice Frew is Personnel Manager for four textile
plants in the Pacific Mills organization at Columbia, South
Carolina.

Rev. J. B. Holloway is minister of Trinity Baptist Church,
Marion, Ohio. His daughter graduated in June from Florida
State University.

J. W. McDonald, president of McDonald Brothers Com-
pany, 994 South Bellevue, Memphis, Tennessee, writes that
they have recently moved their offices to the above address.

A. C. Bryan is manager of the Mortgage Loan Depart-
ment, Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee.

1924
Dr. John T. Collins is practicing optometry at 305 East

[ 18 ]

   
  
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
   

Washington Street, Lewisburg, West Virginia. Both o
daughters are now away at school, Patty at Mary Washin,
in Fredericksburg, and Nancy at West Virginia Unive
in Morgantown.

A Correction

Under ’24 class notes published in the August, 1949, 4
ni Magazine, noting the tenth anniversary of Shropshire
Company, Mobile, Alabama, we stated that this firm
headed by Cameron E. Shropshire, ’24. The firm was foy
and is owned by Ogden Shropshire, brother of Cameron,
of the Class of ’24.

H. L. Shuey is president of Morganton Furniture ¢
pany, designers and manufacturers of fine furniture, Mor
ton, North Carolina. He has recently been made pres
of the Morganton Aggies in the Class D Western Car
Baseball League, and has also been appointed a membg
the City Park and Recreation Commission and elected ¢
man of the commission.

Otis Howe and his wife were in Lexington for the rey
Their sons Otis, Jr., has finished his freshman year at
ington and Lee, Jimmie is a freshman in high school and
is just 5 years old. Address: Wabash, Arkansas.

Frederick L. Engels is an executive with Engels E
ment Company, Inc., manufacturers of fluorescent lig
fixtures, at 1200-20 Broad Street, Utica, New York.

Paul Bock is still connected with the parent organiza
Warner Company, 219 North Broad Street, Philadelpk
Pennsylvania, where he has been since graduation. He
been located at one time or another at all of their nume
plants and offices, and is now in sales, research and dey
ment, control and production. He says he is still marrie
the same girl and they have one son and one daughter.

1925 j

W. Carroll Mead has sent us an announcement of

change of address of his firm, that of Mead, Miller & C

pany, from the First National Bank Building, Baltir

Maryland, to 111 East Redwood Street, Baltimore 2,
land.

William A. McRitchie is trust officer with the Guar
Trust Company, 140 Broadway, New York, New York.
and his family of five made a tour of the West by autome
in July. .

Herbert M. Gould is general manager, Motors Holding z
vision, General Motors Corporation, 8-101 General Mo
Building, Detroit 2, Michigan.

Ransom B. Houchins returned to private practice
March of last year, after having been out for about thi
years, with offices in the Mountain Trust Bank Build
Roanoke, Virginia. 4

George T. Clark has been practicing law since Febru
1, 1947, with offices in the Ingraham Building, Miami, Flor

Archie (Red) Hawkins, with E. I. Du Pont de Neme
Company, has been in Nashville, Tennessee, for about a ¥
and a half. Address: 4107 Aberdeen Road, Nashville,

Allan P. Sloan, after returning from the army in Novem
1945, lived at Wedgefield, South Carolina, and resumed W
with the Jeff Hunt Machinery Company in Columbia.
was transferred to Charleston, South Carolina, and opé

 

aa
regs Shae aha
n :
oe es
ee

aie aed oo = al

me
* 2

 

Officials, Queens and Captains at Homecoming

 

——————_—— :

up a new office there. He and his wife, a boy, eleven, and a
girl, eight, are living at Mount Pleasant, about four miles
out of Charleston on a sixty-acre plantation. Even though
this place is on the mainland, it is only about two miles from
the beach where they enjoy swimming about eight months

out of the year.

R. W. Rochette serves as a manufacturers representative
for American firms in Buenos Aires. He is married to an
Anglo-Argentine girl and they have three daughters, 9, 7 and
four years old.

Dr. C. T. Burton is practicing Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
with offices in the Medical Arts Building, Roanoke, Virginia.
He has a wife, two daughters, ten and eight years old, and
two sons, five and two.

Walton Rex is president of Rex-McGill Investment Com-
pany, Orlando, Florida.

Kenneth A. Goode on the 25th of June started his quarter-
century year with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, and on
account of Mr. John L. Lewis, it was not possible for him to
attend the Bicentennial Reunion. He is now chief clerk to
Assistant Vice-President, and Assistant to the President. Ad-
dress: P. O. Box 6119, Cleveland 1, Ohio.

1927

Garland T. Davis, recently manager of all International
Business Machines sales and services in Fort Wayne, Indiana,
has been appointed to a similar position in the Salt Lake City
area,

1928

Virgil A. Fisher is “still fighting the oil game” in Wichita
Falls, Texas, and doing a little ranching. Address: 512 City
National Bank Building, Wichita Falls, Texas.

_Joe Copper is working with U. S. Steel in Pittsburgh, as
ivision Chief Industrial Engineer, having been transferred
trom Birmingham, Alabama, last summer. Business address:

©ppers Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

" Fred M. P. Pearse, Jr., and his wife (nee Emily Penick)
fre in Lexington for the Bicentennial Reunion. Fred is still

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

an attorney for the Federal Power Commission in Washing-
ton. Their son, Fred, Jr., was on a cycling trip through
Europe this summer. He has had two years at St. Albans,
The National Cathedral School for Boys. He will follow his
father and grandfather into Washington and Lee in 1951. Ad-
dress: 5914 Cedar Parkway, Chevy Chase 15, Maryland.

Frank Gilmore is counsel for the North Penn Gas Com-
pany and its affiliated companies, Port Alleghany, Pennsyl-
vania.

Gerald F. Horine is still with the Lincoln-Mercury Divi-
sion of Ford Motor Company, as business manager of the
Washington District. He has been with this company for
almost fifteen years. He is married and has one daughter,
Jane. Address: Apartment 307-2 West Walnut Street, Alex-
andria, Virginia.

John L. Comegys received his master’s degree from Texas
University after graduation here and is now in the insurance
and loans business, under the firm name of Comegys brothers
Company, Agents, 111% East Virginia Street, McKinney,
Texas.

J. Davis Reed, Jr., is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia,
with offices in the Bank of Commerce Building.

Stuard A. Wurzburger is a member of the firm of Wurz-
burger and Steinman, labor consultants to management, 10
East 40th Street, New York 6, New York. He says his only
claim to fame is that he is probably the newest father in the
class. Married in 1941, he has a daughter 2%, and another
three month old.

Howard Tayloe is president of Tayloe Paper Company,
420-424 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee. He has
been with this company since graduation. He was married
to Nancy Bond in 1941 and they have two children, ages six
and three years.

Edward H. Miller is a member of the law firm of Cum-
mings, Stanley, Truitt & Cross, 1625 K Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

Joseph Scales, Jr., says his life work is “getting milk right
from the cow.” He has two children, Joe 10, and Nancy 5.
He and the family will spend a couple of months this sum-
mer cruising the Chesapeake and Virginia rivers, living on
their cabin cruiser, “Thornfield.” Address: Cascade, Virginia.

1929

Rev. Louis A. Haskell is rector of St. John’s Episcopal
Church, 210 South Dargan Street, Florence, South Carolina.
He has been in this parish for about two and a half years, is
married, and has four children.

Earl A. Fitzpatrick has been practicing law in Roanoke,
Virginia, since graduation, and in addition has gotten into
politics, representing the City of Roanoke in both branches
of the General Assembly for the past fourteen years; serving
four terms as a member of the Virginia House of Delegates,
and is now a member of the State Senate representing the
City of Roanoke. He is married and has two adopted children,
a boy 7, and a little girl 4. He was in Lexington for the cele-
bration of the Centennial of the Law School. He writes his
Class Agent: “In your notes to the alumni, I do not think
there is anything better you can say to them than to call
their attention to the excellent spirit which still prevails, the
fine faculty and the wonderful physical plant with which the

[19 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

present administration has done such a wonderful job, and
to say to them for me that they should return as often as pos-
sible; that I am sure nothing will do them more good than
to visit the campus and recall the wonderful days which they
had as students at Washington and Lee.”

William T. Black, M.D., F.A.C.S., is practicing medicine
and surgery at 899 Madison Avenue, Memphis 3, Tennessee.

Bernard Yoepp has been in Atlanta for the past year es-
tablishing buying organization Southern sources for Sears,
Roebuck and Co. This work involves organizing new South-
ern enterprises to manufacture for Sears, or relocating North-
ern factories in this area, “which is so richly endowed with
human and natural resources.”” He says that his daughter will
be ready for college this year—which is a good indication
that 1929 was a long time ago. Address: Sears, Roebuck and
Company, General Merchandise Office, Atlanta, Georgia.

1930

Newton Baumann Stults received the M.A. degree from
Ohio State University on September 2, 1949. Home address:
610 Birchard Avenue, Fremont, Ohio.

B. L. Rawlins returned to United States Steel Corporation
in March, 1948, from Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation
where he had been General Attorney. He is now General At-
torney for U. S. Steel. Address: 436 Seventh Avenue, Pitts-
burgh 30, Pennsylvania.

F. L. Shipman is a member of the law firm of Shipman
and Shipman, 320 West Main Street, Troy, Ohio.

1931

Harris J. Cox is still with the Western Geophysical Sur-
vey Corporation. He and his wife are living at 1265 Hillcrest
Avenue, Pasadena, California and has a newly-arrived son,
David Claridge Cox. His work is connected with the field
service and necessitates a great deal of traveling in this
country and abroad.

Judge Alfred D. Noyes is Judge of the Juvenile Court for
Montgomery County, Rockville, Maryland.

Benjamin L. Lewis is continuing to work for Dun &
Bradstreet, now in a traveling capacity in California. He
maintains bachelor’s quarters in a bungalow he has built in
the hills overlooking a country club and golf course. Address:
4518 Norris Drive, Woodland Hills, California.

Horace Gooch is with Worcester Moulded Plastics Com-
pany, 14 Hygeia Street, Worcester 8, Massachusetts.

Bernard B. Gottlieb has lived in Washington, D. C., for
the past twelve years and like most persons in the Federal city,
is employed with the Federal Government. He is presently
with the Public Housing Administration as an accountant.

1932

John F. Ladd has been with Waterman Steamship Corpo-
ration since graduation, with the exception of about 34% years
with the Army. He is married and has two little girls ages 6
and 3%. Address: 2005 Old Shell Road, Mobile, Alabama.

R. L. (Snake) McKinney, Jr., is interested in the Whopper-
Stopper Bait Company, P.O. Box 793, Sherman, Texas. He

[ 20 ]

  
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
   
  

has sent some samples of these plastic beauties to fr,
in Lexington and we understand that they are being
as costume jewelry by the ladies of the families.

Dr. Jack J. Stark is practicing medicine in Belpre, 9
He is married and has three little girls. .

James W. Smither, Jr., is with the Union Central Life .
surance Company, James W. Smither & Sons, General Age
1648 Canal Building, New Orleans 12, Louisiana.

James E. Leslie is still employed by the West Virginia
partment of Public Assistance in the Child Welfare Diy;
and is much interested in the work. He has supervisjoy
two counties, Berkeley and Jefferson. His family consis¢
a wife, Helen, two boys, Erroll and Jackie, a dog, “a
a cat, Trouble.

M. William Adelson is practicing law with offices at ]
O’Sullivan Building, Baltimore 2, Maryland. He is ma
and has a seven year old son. §

C. Edmonds Allen is director of Special Services of
United Press Association, 220 East 42nd Street, New
New York. He says he is a well married man with three ¢
dren, Alice, 6; C. E. A., 4; and Molly, 2. They live at 405
54th Street, New York, New York.

Charles E. Long, Jr., is engaged in general practice of
in Dallas, Texas, with offices in the Mongolia Building. A
stantial part of his time is devoted to casualty insurance we
His two boys are now six and three respectively.

Richard O. Parmelee is manager, Hotel Ventura,

land, Kentucky.

Julius G. Berry is manager of Tupelo Insurance Age
311 West Main Street, Tupelo, Mississippi. ,

William D. Hoyt, Jr., is still teaching at Loyola Colle
Baltimore, Maryland, as co-chairman of the Departmen
History.

Kemper Jennings has recently opened up a men’s clo
store in Melbourne, Florida, where he has lived since 194
“with the exception of those years from 1942-1946 wher
many of us lived nowhere in particular.” He and his wife n
have two children, one pre-war, Tracy now 8, and Mel
post-war, aged 2. Address: Flat Iron Building, Melbow
Florida. 4

1933

Henry F. Arnold is Editor and Publisher of the Cullm
Tribune, Cullman, Alabama. :

Dr. John H. Grey, Jr., has recently accepted the pastor

of the Williamsburg Presbyterian Church, Williamsbt
Virginia.
T. Deal Blanchard, president-treasurer, Blanchard

Turner, Inc., coal-fuel oil-hardware, 3410 High Street, Por
mouth, Virginia, has recently completed a one year term
president of the Virginia Coal Merchants Association. He V
elected a member of the board of directors of the Amerie
Retail Coal Association, at its recent convention in Clevelé

W. Todd DeVan is Lieutenant-Colonel, Medical Cor
Surgical Service, Station Hospital, Fort Knox, Kentucky-

Hilliard Harper is the Veterans Administration Trait
Officer for the University of Maryland, College Park M
land. He is now a settled family man, recently celebrat

 

 

The football game was great, but how do you like this...

 

his tenth wedding anniversary; has two children, a girl, four
in February, and a boy, three; owns his own home in Mont-
gomery County, Maryland, suburbs; President of the Fair-
way Hills Citizens Association; and a Vestryman at the
Chapel of the Redeemer, Episcopal Church.

W. J. Brooks, Jr., is still with Pontiac Division, General
Motors Corporation, 301 Rhodes-Haverty Building, Atlanta,
Georgia, in the capacity of Business Management Manager.
Home address: R.F.D. 1, College Park, Georgia.

Commander Arthur Lamar has been on temporary duty
since May 1 from the Naval Academy as Flag Secretary to
Admiral Smith, Commander Cruisers Atlantic, in command
the Midshipman Cruise this summer as CTF 61. They sailed
for England June 6. Commander Lamar plans to return to
the Naval Academy October 1.

Bill Flowers is with the Flowers Baking Company,
Thomasville, Georgia. He says there is no news with him ex-
cept that he has three daughters and three bakeries.

Richard T. (Dick) Edwards is practicing law in Roanoke
with John Copenhaver, ’33. Since each of them has a family of
three children, Dick says they “keep their noses close to the
grindstone.” Address: Copenhaver & Edwards, Colonial Bank
Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

John Hoffman is with the J. C. Penney Company in the
Buying Department, and has been with this organization ever
since graduation. Address: care of J. C. Penney Company,
330 West 34th Street, New York 1, New York.

Loring M. Garrison left Anderson, South Carolina, and
®pened up his own business in Easley, South Carolina. He is
now in the contracting end of the business, specializing in oil
heating, and is very optimistic about the future. His son is
how 242 years old and he is already grooming him for a
halfback spot on the Big Blue.

_ Charles F. Suter is assistant general agent, The Berkshire

tte Insurance Company, 1510 H Street, N. W., Washington,
D.C. Home address: 4909 North Rock Spring Road, Arling-
ton, Virginia.

of Edwin W. Chittum was recently appointed superintendent
Norfolk County, Virginia, schools and officially took over

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

his new duties on July 1. There are about 675 teachers and
18,000 children in this system. His new office address is Nes-
baum Building, 148 Granby Street, Norfolk, Virginia.

1934

George Reynolds, after nearly five years in the Army, re-
turned to the Public Service Company of New Jersey and is
now working in the Camden office as a lighting specialist. Ad-
dress: 3306 Hancock Walk, Camden, New Jersey.

James O. Phelps, Jr., is President of Airpath Instrument
Company, Lambert Field, St. Louis, Missouri. He is married
and has two children, a daughter, Judith Ann, 9, and a son,
Jimmy, 5. Address: 7 Hanley Downs, Richmond Heights,
Missouri.

Foster M. Palmer is in charge of the Reference Section at
Harvard University Library, and continues to do a certain
amount of committee work for the American Library Asso-
ciation. Address: Harvard College Library, Cambridge 38,
Massachusetts.

Fred L. Foss has been in the steel business since leaving
Washington and Lee, except for two and a half years in the
Army. He is now Assistant Manager of Sales for Superior
Steel Corporation, Carnegie, Pennsylvania. He married Doro-
thy Foster of Tulsa, Oklahoma, and has a two year old son.

Jesse Leigh is treasurer of the Royal Crown Bottling
Company of Hamlet, Inc., Hamlet, North Carolina. He is
married and now has four children, Emily Ann, Hinton, Jesse,
and Lorna, who was born March 31, 1949.

Manning Williams, since getting out of the Navy in 1946,
has served with the State Department in Moscow and with
the Military Government in Berlin in the propaganda war
since 1947. Since he is expert in both Russian and German, he
has been able to handle some responsible jobs. His wife,
Kathleen Zollman Williams has been with him overseas. Ad-
dress: care of OMGUS ISD, APO 742, care of Postmaster,
New York, New York.

Dr. Victor F. Marshall is Associate Professor of Surgery
at the Cornell University Medical College and Chief of the
Urological Service. Address: 525 East 68th Street, New York,
New York.

Fred L. Fox is now assistant general manager of Sales,
Superior Steel Corporation, Carnegie, Pennsylvania.

1935

Dr. Sidney Lyons completed his residency training in
Brooklyn and is now associated with Dr. Julius Fogel in the
practice of medicine in Washington, D.C., at 1726 M Street,
N. W. He has recently moved his wife and ten months old
daughter to Mt. Rainier, Maryland, which is about 20 min-
utes drive from the center of Washington.

W. W. (Bill) Fowlkes is practicing law in San Antonio,
Texas, with offices in the South Texas Building. He and Le-
roy Hodges, Jr., 35, had a fine time on a deer hunting trip last
winter and he thinks he has sold Leroy on the wide open
spaces.

Edwin T. Coulbourn is a member of the law firm of Coul-
bourn and McLemore, Suffolk, Virginia. He and his wife now
have four daughters, ranging in age from two and one-half
through eight years. This is unfair to Washington and Lee.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1936

William P. Wiseman is in the insurance and real estate
business in Danville, Virginia. He and his wife and 7 months
old son live on a farm about ten miles out of Danville.

L. Leslie Helmer has been promoted from assistant per-
sonnel director for the Celenese Corporation of America, to
Director of Personnel for the same company. Address: 758
Fayette Street, Cumberland, Maryland.

Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr., M.A., ’36, and William Bryce Rea,
B.A. ’40; LL.B. ’42, are serving on the faculty of The Wash-
ington College of Law of the American University. On
March 28, 1949, the Washington College of Law was merged,
and became a division of The American University. Breit-
haupt has been on the faculty of the Washington College
of Law since 1946, serving part time, as he is in active private
practice in Washington. He will continue under the new set-
up. Bryce Rea is a full-time member of the faculty, having
taught law heretofore at Mercer University and before that
with the National Association of Broadcasters.

Edward A. Turville was with the trust department of
American Security and Trust Company in Washington, D. C.,
until he entered the service in 1942, spending 3% years in
the Navy, coming out as a Lieutenant, senior grade, having
spent 19 months in the Central Pacific and participated in
five of the major invasions. Returning to St. Petersburg, he
and Jim McClure, ’34, set up a law partnership with offices in
the Florida National Bank Building, and since then have been
engaged in the active practice of law. He reports that there
are seven attorneys in his building who are graduates of
Washington and Lee.

Oray M. Davis, Jr., is with the civil engineering corps
of the Navy Department. His home is at 739 North Alber-
marle Street, Arlington, Virginia, and he and his wife have
three children, Robert 10, Martha 5, and Evelyn 7 months.

Dr. Martin Z. Kaplan has recently started practicing his
profession at 840 Barret Avenue, Louisville 4, Kentucky,
specializing in Pediatrics. He is married and they have two
little daughters, ages 4 and 2.

Tyree F. Wilson, after serving six and a half years as a
Naval aviator, returned to his home town, Pineville, Ken-
tucky, and went into the wholesale grocery business and is
now handling the Lincoln-Mercury franchise for Lexington,
Kentucky, at 473 East Main Street, of which he is president
and his brother secretary-treasurer.

Donald Clark, Jr., is in the advertising and radio business
in Columbia, South Carolina. He published a book last year,
“Poem for a Prophet.” Address: 4315 Woodside Avenue,
Columbia 5, South Carolina.

1937

Rev. George C. Crowell is now doing mission work in
Wrangell, Alaska, as minister of the First Presbyterian
Church.

Charles K. Hauke, was one of 7 out of 80 men who sur-
vived the siege of Hoertzgen Forest during the battle of the
bulge. He is now a Certified Public Accountant, married, and
living at 700 Delaware Street, Detroit, Michigan.

Colonel Given W. Cleek, recently retired as commander
of the 260th Anti-Aircraft Battalion, District of Columbia
National Guard, was presented with a medal for ten years

[ 22 |

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

of meritorious service in a formal ceremony held in hig .
at the District Armory early in October. Residence adg
1813 North Quesada Street, Arlington, Virginia.

Charles M. Williams left the Navy in 1947 and fo,
past two years has been a professor of Finance at Ha,
Business School. Address: Morris House, Apartmen
Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Massachusetts.

Norman C. Smith is president of Western Photo-
cal Company, 811 South Boulder, Tulsa 14, Oklahoma_
lowing return from military duty as a Navy Lieutenap
joined the geological staff of the Humble Oil and Re
Company for field exploration in southern Alabama. Be,
cf Navy experience in photographic interpretation, he j
tably became involved in using aerial photographs for
logical interpretation. Developments favored the ¢e¢
ance of this work under an independent organization a;
February of this year, he left the Humble Company ¢
canize the Western Photo- Geological Company. The
prepared to make world-wide surveys in the search of ¢
serves. He married the former Dorothy Phyllis Barn
1942, and since that time they have moved eighteen time
have lived in seven states, none longer than six months,

1938

Gerald M. Lively has been admitted as a junior 0d
with the law firm of Spencer, Britt & Browne, 519 Comr
Building, Kansas City, Missouri. 7

Ed Hiserman is Assistant Prosecuting Attorney, Kz
County, Charleston, West Virginia. Trying some 30 to 40%
a year, some outside practice and “three kids,” keep him |

Waldo G. Miles is a member of the law firm on |
Woodward & Miles, Bristol, Virginia.

Tom Durrance left TIME, Inc., three years ago to id
Kiplinger Agency in Washington, where he worked
early this spring when the prospect of returning to
and contributing a little something toward straightenir
the world’s woes proved too great a temptation. He
ECA in February, went to Paris for indoctrination and
to Economic Cooperation Administration, Special Missi
Denmark the latter part of April. His wife and small dau
are with him there and they find both the job and thel
extremely interesting.

1939

Warren H. Edwards is now a member of the law fir
Pleus, Edwards and Rush, North Main Building, Orle
Florida. He states that in January, one Warren H. Edw
Jr., made his appearance on the local scene and things”
not been the same at home since. J

Ed Burrows is teaching history at Guilford College,
Greensboro, North Carolina. Address: Box 144, Guil
North Carolina.

Philip K. Yonge is now a member of the faculty of
College of Law of the University of Florida, Gaines
I lorida. ;

John Hawkins is still ensconsed in the beautiful Berks "
enjoying an interesting practice with the firm of Marsh
Hawkins, Williamstown, Massachusetts.

Joe Murphy is associated with the law firm of Bowe
Rinehart, Second National Bank Building, Somerville,
Jersey. |

’

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—
1940

Grover C. (Dodo) Baldwin, Jr., is practicing law in Paris,

Kentucky, with offices in the National Bank Building.

William Cc. Church, Jr., is practicing law with his father,
er the firm name of Church & Church, 904 Majestic Build-

a San Antonio, Texas. He graduated from the University
1 ’

; Texas Law School in 1942, was drafted into the Army,
r rried in December, 1942, and at present has two children,
William C.. III, age five and a half, and Walter Wheatley,

two and a half.

Melvin R. McCaskill, M.D., has opened offices for the prac-
tice of gynecology and obstetrics at 711 West Capital Avenue,
Little Rock, Arkansas.

Gilbert Gardner is starting his fourth year as a reporter in
the Chicago Bureau for Fairchild Publications. He and his
wife, Emily, were in Lexington for the Alumni Reunion. Ad-
dress: 559 Surf Street, Apartment 8-J, Chicago 14, Illinois.

Rev. William P. Neal is Rector of Saint James Episcopal
Church in Laconia, New Hampshire, formerly having been
Rector of Trinity Episcopal Church, Claremont, New Hamp-

shire.

Hans A. Schmitt is teaching history and political science
in State Teachers College, Florence, Alabama. He was mar-
ried in 1944 to Florence Bradon of DuBose, Pennsylvania,
and they have a son, Anthony Richard, two years old.

George W. Chaney, Jr., is Regional Insurance Officer for
Veterans Administration, Portland, Oregon. He and his wife
have recently bought a home located on Lake Oswego, about
eight miles from down town Portland. Address: Veterans
Administration, Regional Office, 208 S.W. Fifth Avenue,
Portland 4, Oregon.

Philip Williams has completed his work for the Ph.D. at
the University of Virginia and is now teaching in the English
Department at Duke University.

John W. Watson, Jr., has been on the West Coast since
1946 with the Kaiser Aluminum Company and says he is now
a confirmed Westerner. Address: Room 308, Hoge Building,
Seattle 4, Washington.

1941

Thomas W. Brockenbrough has resigned his position with
Douglas Aircraft Company to accept a position as Assistant
Professor of Civil Engineering at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute. Address: 500 Draper Road, Blacksburg, Virginia.

Bernard M. Bogue is Sales Promotion Manager Evans
Products Company, Plymouth, Michigan. Home address:
P.O. Box 260, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.

Robert E. Lehr was married to Miss Lillian Ann Porter of
Hillsboro, Txas, on March 26, 1949, and they are living at 122

ubbard, San Antonio, Texas. Tex is in the real estate,
Mortgage business with his brother Ralph, ’41. Business ad-
dress: 2119 Alamo National Building, San Antonio, Texas.

a N. Chariton Gilbert is working with the Chellis Company,
aking machine tools and tool equipment. He is now Treas-

ed of the company. Address: P.O. Box 145, Hamden 14,
nnecticut.

om E. Perry is practicing law with the firm of Burgwin,
Urchill, Ruffin and Hazlett, 1515 Park Building, Pittsburgh

22, Pennsylvania. He was married to Jean Meenan on April
16, 1949, in St. Peters Episcopal Church, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania.

Dr. William J. Longan will finish his fellowship at Mayo
Clinic next September, when he will go to Richmond, Vir-
ginia, and open his office there.

Herbert M. Woodward is treasurer of Woodberry Forest
School, Woodberry Forest, Virginia.

Bertram Schewel is settled in the family store, Schewel
Furniture Company, Lynchburg, Virginia. He has been mar-
ried since August, 1946, and is now the proud father of a ten
months old boy, Marc Allen Schewel.

Arthur Clarendon Smith is vice-president and general man-
ager of Smith’s Transfer & Storage Company, Inc., 1313
You Street, N.W., Washington 9, D.C., of which his father
is president.

Ted Bruinsma, after three and a half years in the Navy,
attended the Harvard Graduate School of Business Adminis-
tration and Harvard Law School. He was married in 1943 and
now has two sons, 4% and 2% years old. He is a member of
the New York State Bar and with the law firm of Whitman,
Ransom, Coulson & Goetz, at 40 Wall Street, New York City.

A. Stuart Robertson, Jr., after three years in the Army
Air Corps as a twin- and four-engine pilot, entered the Uni-
versity of Virginia in February, 1946, and graduated in Law
in 1948. He and his wife and three-year-old daughter are
living in Orange, Virginia, where he is a junior member of
the law firm of Shackelford and Robertson.

1942

Richard B. Spindle, III, on July 1, 1949 became a mem-
ber of the law firm of Willcox, Cooke & Willcox, 419 National
Bank of Commerce Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Raymond B. Whitaker is practicing law in Casper, Wyo-
ming, with offices at 434 Wyoming National Bank Building.
His family consists of a wife and 2 sons, Terry, 2%, and
Ray, Jr., 1.

John B. MacBride is assistant to one of the two partners
of the New York advertising agency, Cowan & Dengler,
Inc., 527 Fifth Avenue. He is married and has one son, Peter,
who is two years old. Address: 79 Appletree Lane, Roslyn
Heights, Long Island, New York.

Frank L. LaMotte is still at the family chemical works—
LaMotte Chemical Products Company. Towson 4, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Whitt N. Schultz is president of Northmore’s Home Prod-
ucts, P.O. Box 756, Highland Park, Illinois, manufacturing
and selling gifts and housewares, advertising nationally in
all the leading magazines.

Alex M. Hitz, Jr., completed a year at the University of
Paris’ Institute of Political Studies, studying international re-
lations, just in time to be on hand for the Alumni Reunion
in June.

Edwin D. Chase, Jr., graduated in March, 1948, from the
University of Chicago with the degree of N.B.A., and went
to work for the Studebaker Corporation at their home office
in South Bend, Indiana, in the Business Management Divi-
sion. Since November, 1948, he has been the New York re-

[23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

gional representative of the Corporation in the aforemen-
tioned division. Address: 54 Highland Terrace, Manhasset,
New York.

Green Rives, Jr., is with W. C. Nabors Company, manu-
facturers of Nabors Trailers, Mansfield, Louisiana. During
the past year he has been active in civic affairs in Mansfield,
through the Chamber of Commerce and Rotary Club.

Gus Essig, released from the Army as a Captain in the Air
Corps in March, 1946, retaining an inactive reserve status,
joined the staff of Monsanto Chemical Company, Central
Research Laboratories as a physicist. He is now a group
leader in one of the labs. Address: 538 Superior Avenue, Day-
ton, Ohio.

William B. Hopkins is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Boxley Building. He was married
last June and they are living at Apartment 3-B, Franklin
Heights Apartments, Roanoke, Virginia.

F. K. Rippetoe has become associated with the firm of
Goshorn & Goshorn, Attorneys-at-Law, who have recently re-
moved their offices from the Morgan Building to Suite 23,
Capitol City Building, Capitol and Quarrier Streets, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Robert W. Root says he has nothing important to re-
port except the birth of a son, Robert Jr., born October 15,
1948, this being their second chold as they have a daughter
three years old. Home address: 14 Danbury Street, Wash-
ington 20, D.C.

1943

John Kammerer is back at his geological survey job in
Philadelphia after a year at Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology. Address: 531 West Eighth Street, Plainfield, New
Jersey.

Bev Fitzpatrick is now Assistant Commonwealth's Attor-
ney for the City of Roanoke, Virginia. Soon after his ap-
pointment to this office he assisted in the prosecution in the
Scott murder case in Roanoke, which received so much pub-
licity in the State and national newspapers .

Barton Morris is one of the star reporters for the World-
News, Roanoke, Virginia.

R. Gordon Long has recently accepted a position as In-
dustrial Engineer with Steiff Silver Company in Baltimore,
Maryland. Address: Malvern Avenue, Ruton, Maryland.

Bob MacCachran last year attended the American Insti-
tute for Foreign Trade in Phoenix, Arizona, where he took
a post- -graduate course in export and foreign trade, and at
present is employed as assistant to the export manager of
the Hamilton Watch Company in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Address: 106 South President Avenue, Lancaster, Pennsyl-
vania.

1944

Baird Brown is with his father’s insurance agency, George
F. Brown & Sons, 175 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4,
Illinois, with the expectation of it becoming a permanent job.

John P. Jordan finished his law course at Tulane Univer-
sity last February and is now working with the West Pub-
lishing Company. His home is in Mansfield, Louisiana.

Bob DeHaven resigned from the Air Force last December
and is now with Hughes Aircraft Company as Chief of Flight

[ 24 |

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

Test, Culver City, California. Home address: 15133 Dic
Street, Apartment “B,”’ Sherman Oaks, California.

Bill Sommer is practicing law at 221% Capitol S¢
Charleston, West Virginia. Prior to setting up his law of
in Charleston he was with the Aetna Casualty and Sur
Company as claims adjuster for six months.

Albert F. Breitung, since finishing school, has beeail
the Sinclair Refining Company as an auditor, and has tray
irom Florida to New Mexico. He has seen a number of e¢}
mates and some of his fraternity brothers, and had plea
visits with them. His home is at Terryville, New York, —

Neil Tasher spent three years subsequent to law g¢
working for other attorneys, but has now started the p
of law on his own, with offices in the Majestic Building, ]
ver, Colorado. He has been admitted to practice in all e¢
of the state of Colorado. |

Phil O’Connell is doing public relations work with
Potomas Edison Company in Hagerstown, Maryland,
electric utility company covering part of four states,
owning a bus line or two on the side. |

1945

Jack Coulter has recently become a member of the
firm of Dodson and Pence, Roanoke, Virginia. He and
wife and young son live in an apartment at 1845 Avon R
Roanoke, Virginia. 3

E. Dean Finney opened radio station WTWN, St. Jot
bury, Vermont, on July 10, 1949. This is an independent st;
serving an area of about 85,000 people in Vermont and
Hampshire. He and his partner did most of the work th
selves in the installation of equipment. Address: Box 336
Johnsbury, Vermont. ;

William Hubert Schindel received the degree of r
of Medicine from the Temple University School of Medi
on June 16, 1949. He wll serve his internship at Pass
Memorial Hospital, Chicago, Illinois. Home address: 239
Irvine Avenue, Hagerstown, Maryland.

1946

Fred Holley is employed as a police reporter on the }
folk Virginian-Pilot. Address 352 West Freemason
Norfolk, Virginia.

Robert Reid Agnor, Jr., has satisfactorily completed
comprehensive course in insurance conducted by the A
Casualty & Surety Company at its home office in Hart
Connecticut, and is now connected with the firm of W
Foltz & Son, Lexington, Virginia. He and his wife ha’
son born in October, 1949. 4

Dr. John J. Kelly, Ill, is completing his internal
Johnson-Willis Hospital in Richmond, Vi irginia, Beginnir
July, he volunteered for another year in the Navy.
married and his home address is Big Stone Gap, Virgini

1947

John M. Sisley has moved to Lexington, Virginia,
home address being Route One, Lexington. He is field
resentative for Virginia and several eastern states for
F. C. Russell Company, manufacturers of combination 5
windows and screens.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

Charles Calhoun Hedges, Jr., received his M.D. from the
rniversity of California Medical School on June 17, 1949.
dress 85 Elhott Avenue, Santa Rosa, California.

1948

Bob Spessard is in the private practice of law in Roanoke,
Virginia, with offices in the Shenandoah Life Building.

Fred Loeffler continues to distinguish himself as a photog-
rapher-reporter on the Roanoke Times, Roanoke, Virginia.

Cluade E. Taylor, Jr., is in the private practice of law in
Wartinsville, Virginia. He recently headed the local emergency

polio fund campaign there.

Captain Billy S. Holland, Indoctrination Division, Air
Training Command, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio,
Texas, has recently received a commendation from Major
General, C. W. Lawrence, USAF, for his work in connection
with indexing the notes of the Judge Advocates Conference
held in Washington, D. C. That office plans to reproduce and
distribute this work to the various Judge Advocates for use
in connection with the Conference Notes.

Frederick B. Gillette is Research Director for the Mon-
tant Taxpayers’ Association, having received his Masters de-
eree from Wayne University in June, 1949. He is the father
ef twin daughters born March 3, 1949, and their home is at
1104 Leslie, Helena, Montana.

Frank J. DiLoreto has opened law offices in The Gates
Building, Suite 108, New Britain, Connecticut.

Paul G. Cavaliere has become associated with the firm of
Ericson, Politis and Gleason for the general practice of law,
Suite 407 City Hall Building, New Britain, Connecticut.

Don Murray is news editor for WDBJ, Roanoke, Virginia,
and Leigh Smith, ’49, broadcasts for WSLS in the same po-
sition in Roanoke.

1949

Malcolm Tenney, Jr., is serving as assistant principal of
the Monterey, Virginia, high school. He was married on
January 17, 1948, to Miss Marjorie Donald of Lexington,
Virginia.

Lewis D. Williams is now taking a graduate course in tax-
ation at the College of William and Mary, leading toward a
Master of Arts degree in taxation next June. His wife, Mary,
and their two sons will be at home in Suffolk, Virginia, at 139
Brewer Avenue, while Lewis, Sr., is at William and Mary.
Mrs. Williams is a graduate of Woman’s College, Duke Uni-
versity, class of ’44,

Madison Dryden McKee, Jr., was married to Frenchie
Marie Bennett, October 1, 1949.

 

In Memoriam

1891

. Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow died May 31, 1949, in
Nashville, Tennessee. Dr. Glasgow was widely known as a

me seon and Vanderbilt University teacher for the past 30
rs,

1892

di Major General Robert H. Allen, retired chief of infantry,
led at his home in San Marino, California, after a long ill-

ness, October 10, 1949. General Allen served in the Spanish-
American War, the Philippine Insurrection and the First
World War. In 1929 he retired after four years as chief of
infantry. He was born in Buchanan, Virginia, in 1870.

Mr. Rees Turpin died at his home in Kansas City, Mis-
souri, August 11, 1949.
1895

Edwin F. Hartley died November 5, 1948. His home was
in Fairmount, West Virginia.

1899

Harry St. George Tucker Carmichael, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees since 1938, died September 29, 1949.

1900

Lynwood Ruff Holmes died July 22, 1949. His home was
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In 1944 he retired as manager
of Furness, Withy & Company after 28 years service.

1908
Clyde L. Green, Superintendant of Robeson County
Schools for the past 12 years, died of a heart attack June 14
in Maxton, North Carolina.
1911

Clarence A. (Tod) Robbins died May 10, 1949, in St. Jean
Cap Ferrat, France. He had lived on the Riviera for a number
of years. Shortly after leaving school he turned to fiction and
was the author of several books, one of which, “The Unholy
Three” was adapted to the screen with Lon Chaney playing
a stellar role. He was one of the co-authors of “The Swing.”

1912

Walter Lee Hopkins, A.B. °12; LL.B. ’14, died of a heart
attack in Richmond, Virginia, on July 13, 1949.

1920
Dr. Hillyer Rudisill, Jr., died very suddenly on July 21,
1949, at his home in Charleston, South Carolina.

Martin Walton Simmons died at his winter home in Miami
Beach, Florida, on April 23, 1949.

1935

Robert Ryland Miller died October 17, 1949, in Detroit,
Michigan.
1942

Dr. William Henderson Jasper died in Formosa, October
22, 1949. His home was at 215 East Chestnut Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

Marriages

1935

William Wilson Fowlkes was married to Laura Jane Web-
bles on August 12, 1949, in San Antonio, Texas.

1938

Alfred George Morgan, Jr., was married to Suzanne
Whelan Hooper on September 24, 1949. Their new home ad-
dress is: 1 Alden Place, Bronxville, New York.

1940

Dr. Charles Light Showalter was married to Dorothy Furr
on Saturday, October 1, 1949, in Lexington, Virginia.

[25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1941
George W. Faison was married to Millicent Evans Hoyt
on July 23, 1949, in New Rochelle, New York.

Francis Thornton Strang was married to Babington Vin-
cent Connell, November 18, 1949, in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Charles Lee Hobson was married to Mary Alice Kerr on
October 22, 1949, in Floydsburg, Kentucky.

1942

Robert F. Campbell, Jr., was married to Anne Elizabeth
Damtoft on April 30, 1949, in Asheville, North Carolina.

1943
Dr. Harold T. Mankin was married to Patricia Reed Daw-
son on June 5, 1948, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Ernest Edward Smith was married to Dorris Ann O’Hare
June 11, 1949, in St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Manhattan.

Henry Bowen Crockett was married to Ruth Ann Phillips
November 12, 1949, in Alexandria, Virginia.

1944
Dr. Ernest Lovell Becker was married to Margaret Webb
Thompson October 22, 1949, in Louisville, Kentucky.

Richard Carleton Eglin was married to Elizabeth Wilmer
Wheless on October 15, 1949, in Shreveport, Louisiana.

Charles Lynch Christian, Jr., was married to Joy Roberts
on September 7, 1949, in St. Petersburg, Florida.

1945
Edwin Hanson Webster Harlan, Jr., was married to Rosa
Charlotte Brown, September 10, 1949, in Baltimore, Maryland.

Elliott Sidney Schewel was married to Rosel Hariet Hoff-
berger on June 12, 1949. They will make their home in Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

David Wendel Foerster was married to Estell Tomlinson
Jones on August 13, 1949, in Jacksonville, Florida.

1949

Douglas Steele Higgins was married to Frances Marian
Sholes, on July 26, 1949, in Charlottesville, Virginia.

1950

Lieutenant Lester Lewis Hickman, Jr., A.U.S., was mar-
ried to Ada Southall Gillock, of Lexington, Virginia, on June
14, 1949, in Columbus, Georgia.

Frederick Short Johnson, Jr., was married to Carolyn
Louise Turner on November 5, 1949, in Martinsville, Vir-
ginia.

Births
1925

Mr. and Mrs. Wilson M. Roach are the parents of a son,
David Christopher Wilson Roach, born April 3, 1949.

1933

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Cook are the parents of a son, Thomas
Hoge Cook, born February 8, 1949.

[ 26 ]

    
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  

Mr. and Mrs. Claude A. LaVarre are the parent.
third child, a son, Frank Provost LaVarre, born May 6

1938

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Karraker are the parents
second child, this one a daughter, Naneen, born July 6.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Burnet Stoddart are the parent
second son, George Melville Stoddart, born Septem}
1949,

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis are the parents of a dal
Susan, born September 10, 1949. They have two sons, Sy,
Jr., and Andy, who announced the arrival of Susan,
lows:

We used to be tough but our hearts we're losin’
Since the two of us picked out our sister Susan —
She’s sweet and soft but most sedate,

You'll have to see us to arrange a date.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth B. Van de Water, Jr., are the

ents of a daughter, Julia Churchill Van de Water, born
11, 1949.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. David Pardee are the parents of a son, J

David, born August 21, 1949. |

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Vaughan are the parents of i
Robert T., Jr., born July 21, 1949.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Zombro are the parents of a se
son, Stephen Lee, born October 2, 1949.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Francis Johnson are the paren
a daughter, Abigail Crozer Johnson, born October 12, 1

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund D. Wells, Jr., are the parents
daughter, Teresa Ann Wells, born August 19, 1949.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. Ewing Sloan Humphreys, Jr., are the par
of a son, David Carlisle Humphreys, born September 22,
The baby was named for his great-grandfather, who was ¢
of the School of Engineering at Washington and Lee.

1945
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur V. Milona are the parents of a
Arthur V., Jr., born October 17, 1949. %
1948 |

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Robert Moxham are the parent
a son, Donald Robert, Jr., born December 31, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Tolley, Jr., are the parents of a §
B. C., III, born July 17, 1949.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Fox are the parents of a son, ¥
liam Allen, born July 30, 1949.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis D. Williams are the parents of a
Marshall Burchett, born September 29, 1949,

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Davis are the parents of a daugl
Nancy Ann, born September 28, 1949.

Mr. and Mrs. Burr W. Miller are the parents of a §
Bruce Baily Miller, born October 20, 1949.

 

 

 

 

Your reference shelf will not

be complete without

A copy [ff] oF THE

Alumni Directory

$3.50 per copy

- —_—-
i tl

Mail a card, stating the number

of copies desired, to the

Alumni Office today

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ i

| " ti

.
7

 

Now Available

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

WITH BICENTENNIAL BACK STAMP

Colors: Blue and Mulberry

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $18.00 per set

-
—

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

