 

Draenei

 

 

     

   

       

 

           

   

           

: ee
. ke bd " e Hi j , ’ ~~, \
ts "4 | a ue ba uJ
Bet : i es 5 ' et ee / #
i 5 A ‘ pee: 4 , n
3 { i eo ¥ ri fi) we) ens
iH cat ei % r ap 7 y * \ ee) he) a *
} - i hid teal A ¥ 4 . a ’ *
ey r M ; ¢ : iy ‘ he : :
‘ : * : F ‘ i 4 ‘
¢ i f ? j ‘ 4 a n f od N cy F ;
é a ‘ ié 4 Kiley) + iy ;
Saat a 5 at st i
$ , Segre 4 2 x at | 4 i
Hi : - ; x j a ed bi ‘at - ’ .
s 5 ‘ . , ae 5 A Xi; a r
"4 " a He 7 j Au ht i Ks i i i 2 ‘i . i
} , f i J ‘ y
f ve * i , Hes Hi , 3 ‘ ; ree th 5 .
‘ ‘ ( ‘ ; i a x eM é : ib ie : ’ } : . é ” *
. sae) x es A 3 z A EY j Sha 4 is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ca

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alachian :
wer P. Collins, Marion, Va,

nsas
sae H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

lanta, Georgia os
mt Brace Woodruff, Healey Building

Itimore, Maryland
oe H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road

irmingham, Alabama

ee Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

Dr. George W. Schnath, 734 Milburn Strect,

Evanston, IIl.
Cincinnati, Ohio

Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

R. P. Sanford
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

James T. Noel
Louisville, Kentucky

George E. Burks, Commercial Building
Memphis, Tennessee

Stuart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dunfour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

Gaylord J. Stone, Ft. Worth, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

/ A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

Richmond, Virginia

George Haw
Roanoke, Virginia

Kar] A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California

St. Louis, Missouri

Joseph R. Long, 506 Olive St.
Tri-State

J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

ecm

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XV] NOVEMBER 1940 No. 1
EOF Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917
Managing Editor....GkorGk STUYVESANT JACKSON

&

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PCSOs Dr. R. W. Fowixss, 1915
SPCVerg ns Harry I. (Cy) Young, 1917
7 PROG ce Dr. Rein Wuits, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carroti Merape, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHEenery, 1909
Joun C. Morrison, 1925
RG. WaHrrrnk, 1924

 

Contents for November 1940

PAGE
College Trustees (The President's*Page) 6584)... @ 3
FKighty-two Sons of Alumni Enrolled........0..00000000... sat ae +
Plenty.ol Snap ty Old Rubber Arm. (50) ee i
ene ety Cia ee ee 8
Pwenty Yeates ovOr a a 11
Lie Generals a6 PO20" ee 13
LrWherOh ian 2s anne eae one Dire Ms Oe 18
New | keasurer and Pinahcial Systent. 0 ee 20
Local Alumni. Associaton Notes 0a ac ees 21
CMSs NOtGG ce  ae cca el  e

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

|
|
‘

 

New Front Entrance to Dormitories

sah ce a

3
|

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

College Trustees

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

ECENTLY I was struck with curious force by a pair of
Be ences occurring in an article furnished by Mar-
garet Culkin Banning to Survey Graphic. They read:
“Students leave college thinking affectionately of the fac-
ultv. But what student ever leaves think-
ae affectionately of a trustee ’”

ee

“Ts it possibler’. | said. No, not: tor
Washington and Lee. Yet my experience
leads me to observe that of various Amer-
ican groupings, college trustees are some-
times least understood for the full mea-
sure of their service, for their full con-

tribution. eo ee

Since this session started, a trustee
committee met here on the campus. The
four trustees who were present traveled
respectively 100, 300, 400, and 500 miles

to attend that committee meeting. For at

least two of them the occasion involved more than one:

day’s time. They are all men of large professional or busi-
ness committals. They lost the time from their profession
or business, came here—incidentally at their own expense
—-gave careful, patient consideration to the affairs of the
institution committed to them and their colleagues.

hee
It struck me that if Washington and Lee had been
compelled to pay for the services of these men, as clients
or business firms would have paid for such services,—

well, the budget for the current year would certainly be

out of balance.
x ce

They sat in careful study of probably twenty mat-
ters, some of them phases of relatively great impor-
tance, some of them matters of minor consequence. ‘To
every detail these men brought their fine conscience,
their best intelligence, often their expert professional
knowledge. No client, however much he may have been
disposed to pay, could have commanded more of what
these men had to give. Yet this was just a routine com-
mittee nieeting.

At about the same time, another trustee, executive
Of one of the truly notable American businesses, was

 

making a comprehensive study of a small group of en-
dowment securities, a little lot of odds and ends, things
that possibly should be kept, possibly should be sold;
and if these were sold, then came the question of what
should be bought. I remember that one
item was made up of seven shares of a cer-
tain stock, a little fraction of a gift to us.
Yet this busy and most important man of
the world was going over this portfolio.
with utmost diligence. |

MR OK

This enumeration of the unselfish de-
votion and helpfulness of trustees might
be carried on indefinitely. I recall, for
example, a committee meeting during the
summer when the Governor of a state laid
down all duties of his office that he might
give that full day to the duties of this
committee of Washington and Lee direc-
tors. I know one of our Board, an extremely busy man,
for whom a trip to a meeting means a minimum of three
days out of his office. I could tell a somewhat similar story
of every member of the present board.

ee

All trustees, I suppose, if they have a sense of honor,
an imperative to keep faith, are anxious to do their duty.
They are mindful of the trust involved, of the benefactors
who have left hard-earned gifts in sweet confidence that
the successive governors of the institution will administer
wisely the benefaction, of great traditions handed down
through the generations and enriched by sacrifices of the
generations that must be sustained. It is truly no light
obligation accepted when one becomes a trustee. The very
word is a solemn, commanding, spiritually imperious im-
plication. eo ee

Yet all who love Washington and Lee realize, I am
sure, that not only its progress but—what is sometimes
more important—the maintenance of its strength and the
steadfastness of its purpose are in the last analysis to be
credited to the board of its ultimate control. It is a matter
of great fortune for this institution that it has such a

President

board.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Eighty-two sons of Washington and Lee alumni enrolled this year at their fathers’ alma mater

Eighty-two Sons of Alumni Enrolled

ASHINCTON AND LEE University officially re-
We its doors on the sixteenth of September,
1940, when the freshmen, returning from the now-tra-
ditional camp in Arnold’s Valley swarmed into their new
dormitory which was not quite finished but ready to re-
ceive them. For the next few days they and the upper-
classmen registered, and then there was the usual open-
ing ceremony in the gymnasium on Friday, September 20,
which meant that once again this university was in ses-
sion,

Like everyone and everything else, Washington and
Lee was under the shadow of war. The registration did
not fall off badly, but it was far from increasing as young
men turned their eyes toward Conscription, ROTC Naval
Reserves, the Air Corps and the Marines. It was pointed
out dramatically by Dean Robert H. Tucker that up until
May 7 of this year, applications were far ahead of even
last year which was particularly good. After that date
they steadily fell off. Realizing the need of National De-

fense, and recognizing the blackness of the hour, the col-
lege strongly hopes for an ROTC unit next year.

Figures show about the usual number in the college
group. There are 931 students in school this year as the
session begins of which 288 are new men. The Law
School records 104. This will give the university an en-
rollment which well accords with the ideal of 900-925 set
some years ago.

Geographically these boys come from almost every-
where as they usually do.

The freshman camp put in its best year in history with
a total membership of 144, who swam, hiked, played
games, and learned about the fellowship they were about
to enter. Those who watched the thermometer on the
nights of the encampment believed that the whole group
would be severely frost-bitten, but Frank J. Gilliam, dean
of students and director of the camp, reports that the
blankets were sufficient and that only the people in town
noticed the cold. Outstanding events were an exciting

Ea

a a a

/
,

:
;
j
q
1
‘

|
|

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

baseball game in which the freshmen beat the councillors
18-17 and the remarkable performance of Bill Guthrie,
brother of Charles Guthrie, 1939, in the name contest
wherein Bill remembered 139 out of the 139 names of
those in camp submitted to him.

Sons of alumni now in college number 82, twenty-

three of whom are new men. The list follows:

Son Father
John Alexander, Jie. J. R. H. Alexander, ’07
Gordon AlfOrd.....ccceccesceeetetrerseseneeeteneesseesseeeenees i. 1 Atterd, 85
fins Franklin Alison 2. ee *George W. Allison, ’10
Bley ArmstlObis cai curticnuteen pee G. G. Armstrong, ’21
Meerles Bagley, [tte a Charles F. Bagley, ’07
Mee 1). Bates, [sj occ Paul D. Barnes, ’17
Bead -Barteistem, J fice iin eens Fred Bartenstein, ’08
Meenk Bédinget, Jie a skin aa Frank Bedinger, '13
Mohert Mac Bodtwright...6.cc John G. Boatwright, 715
Beard Brook: 6a Sega George M. Brooke, ’00
Beettier Browder, }ticis eile es *Walter Browder, 14
Beoree C. Buchanan. ce Gee Daniel C. Bunchanan, ’14
Mehard Burke. cnc cnc eae ee Jerry A. Burke, ’15
Meee Burks 260 oe ae a *M.-P.. Burks; ’05
meen 1. Campbell, Hic os John L. Campbell, ’09
Bepert F..Campbell, 1iisa6 eis, el R. F. Campbell, ’78
Metynch Christian; Je. i. C. Lynch Christian, 16
een W. Cook, [tia acer er pura John W. Cook, 719

Son Father
FORD Poa te i ee es W: P. Daniel,
Pioch (ee 206, 15 he ata E. C. DeVane,
Claes teu ne, Jf ea Gis De. Chas. |. Devine,
iriatt Peon. ee ee George Faison,
Frank FO eran i ca Frank H. Flanagan,
VV Pa aa E. W. Foreman,
Cady Petey, Fike eine enka Grady H. Forgy,
PO Ory. i eee east Grady H. Forgy,
Toit Ue) Pao ee J. W. Garrow,
Carter (ease bh 8 a en Carter Glass, .J|t:;
George Cassinidil ios oh eee ieee I. P..Gassman,
Tee tia fhe ie a ee Leon Harris,
Ceo: Hw tics ee ee es Geo. E. Haw,
EC Pe ON ie John G. Herndon,
Pe hh a A ee ce ee Alex Hitz,
Caries 2 sO 10 BAe sae C.-N= Flobson,
Robert Travs0n. oc reess Be ue ey Gactaa ioadces RR. P;: Hobson,
WV ilar Fa hii8 ca ois eh as age A. H. Hopkins,
PRCLDTON eS EF, EE ckiece tie eee Dr: A. A. Houser,
Bwings S. tumphrevs,. J 8. .cc.44. Ewing S. Humphreys,
Jo Morrison Tiutcheson, Jr........: Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson,
PCa VASO ce a ie R. W. Hynson,
Vineeee FENtCO.. eS aii cee ee Bob Ignico,
Marsha) POnnsdn ain cee aes, William M. Johnson,
Homer: pres; 1 i. ascites ie Homer Jones,
Reece cleric eel George W. Keller,
Dae Ci JW Bern,
ey tir eta (FICK i es * ToS. Kirkpatricl,
FOC Tyee, Ei ns iat ele ietiec ovde-srodiinte ani ange Jo te hee

"18
14
G6
a7
"18
eo
16
"16
"99
"13
07
i:
04
a
14
06
14
Ae
"09
av
"02
08
"18
08
"17
07
07
83
"09

 

Sons of Alumni entering this year—Front row, left to right: Marshall Steves, J. Morrison Hutchecon, Jr., Geo. E. Haw, Jr.,

Frank H. Flanagan, Jr., John R. Forgy, Lewis S. Pendleton, Jr. Ewing C. Humphreys, Jr., Alex Hitz, Jr. Second row: Stanley

E. Sacks, William F. Allison, Fred Valz, Jr., Charles Devine, Jr., William H. Oast, Jr., Alex Walker, Jr., Paul Barnes, Jr. Back

row: Marshall McMurran, Sam Williams, Leon Harris, Jr., Lynch Christian, Jr.. George Buchanan, Kenelm Shirk, Jr.
Not in picture: Bob Worrell.

[>|

Washington and Lee University

 

The Alumni Magazine,
Son Father

Me NMCClire ee J. A. MecClure,
Ray We 10 is es oe eee William McCoy,
BECO VEC POR oan sinkivicascaie tives ences gnats *C). 1, Mepoenaia,
Metis Die Mtr Sit. *Lewis A. McMurran,
7. Marshall i € Marra ni iis. c. accepted. *Lewis A. McMurran,
Patt, Barton W. Morris,
re ei i i +} a eal,
My siiat PLenry Coats oi iiss ees William Henry Oast,
DO IW ae hice a  ersieeses ie Dan Owen,
PUCHTY POC eS EN eis ee es: Henry Peeples,
Tews Se Pen EtONy. J fscicc isaicavecrons Lewis S. Pendleton,
Fei 2 ook 10h ee ke James 32 Price,
Stantey bo sdCKS:....inaece  e Herman A. Sacks,
Tee oe ie eee ae A. Cos @ierrard,
Mere i ee ie ee es Kenelm Shirk,
Ree ett Ger. FE cs ikckcoee ince: Herbert Smith,
Miutihay Sat, Foe nee ee Murray Smith,
Hichere Sit ele ee R. A, Smith,
Ty Ot oa ee: RB. Spindte, Ir,
Be Siege eel R. E. Steele, Jr.,
Roscoe Steprerson, JT... his eens Roscoe Stephenson,
Moreha fT. BeVeES ii ei ee, Albert Steves, Jr.,
Motice Sutheriand, 46: a Horace Sutherland,
ier MA Vale. VP ek ee Fred M. Valz,
Pex, Walker, [reo fies alas. Alex M. Walker,
Porrest, Walla es *Hiram. P:Wall,
Wisi WHCOX? Sc 2 8 es W. J. Wilcox:
Weir WVTKINS, $630.0 oe ek Walter Wilkins,
Serre! Co Willigns, Seis Clayton FE. Williams,
Pe WS i os ee Phil Williams,
Avge Woalte,! 102. yo ae ee sees Alfred Wolfe,
Heppert: Woodward, ft. 5...03e ao. Herbert Woodward,
Robert WW Orr Ciickic jt eho Pe ee Edgar W. Worrell,
Richard Ts Wirieht: ne iw William B. Wright,
NG Oe eI sae ioe Cy Young,

* Deceased

The changes in the faculty this
year are numerous, but most of
them are not permanent, as many
of the regular faculty are on leave
of absence for one year or more.

Charles Porterfield: Light, pro-
fessor of “Law is in Washington
where he has been called, in the
war-time emergency, for work in
the judge-advocate’s office.

George Junkin Irwin, assistant
professor in the department of
modern languages, will be studying
at Columbia this year.

Lemuel Lee Hill, assistant pro-
fessor in the department of biology
is taking a year’s leave for further
study.

Robert Haynes Gray, assistant
professor of Economics and Com-
merce is to study at Columbia.

Richard Powell Carter, instruc-

"99
02
io
‘07
07
Ag
15
1S
AZ
Ae
rid
09
Ad
03
Ap
ake
05
a
00
oe
08
06
ey
a
20
‘10
he
14
ne
"10
AZ
SS,
01
20
tae

tor in Journalism, will be at the same university for fur-
ther work in his field.

Harry Melvin Philpott, who has been carrying on the
work of Religious Director, is to take graduate work at
Yale.

George Stuyvesant Jackson, assistant professor of
English, will be studying at Columbia.

Filling vacancies on the faculty for 1940 are the fol-
lowing :

Lewis W. Adams, who was instructor at Washington
and Lee from 1926-1929 and instructor at Cornell from
1923-1924 will undertake part of the duties formerly
performed by George Winston Smith, and will be assist-
ant professor of Economics. Recently Mr. Adams has
been head of the statistical department of a New York
brokerage firm. Mr. Adams has a master’s degree from.
the University of North Carolina.

Taking the place of Mr. Irwin will be G. Francis
Drake of Ohio who will be instructor in French. Mr.
Drake is a graduate of Princeton.

Taking the place of Mr. Jackson in the English de-
partment is George Foster, who has been studying for a
Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina.

George E. Hobbs, B.S. in Commerce and LL.B. of
the University of North Carolina, will be instructor in

(Continued on page 22)

 

Baseball team of 1908——“‘Lefty” George, top row, second from left

| 6 |

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Plenty of Snap in Old Rubber Arm

EING a basebail fan from way back, we must admit
B regret that interest in college sports has shifted so
radically from baseball to football. Of course football is a
great game and full of thrills and drama, but there was
never anything in football like two strikes and three balls
and a man on base and the score
tied 0-0. (Obviously we go back to
the day when every hit wasn’t a
home run. )

This article is a sort of baseball
reminiscence—the story of a man
who pitched for Washington and
Lee in 1908, kept right on pitching
for other teams, and 1s not only still
pitching at the age of 54 but is do-
mea fine job of 4t; so, since. no
football player could last that long,
we baseball fans can still claim
something—even in the fall when
the papers are so full of the latest
college football stars that it’s get-
ting so we can hardly find the ©
World’s Series!

So this afternoon we were look-
ing through some old Calyxes and
for the 1908 issue we read, ‘“‘again
baseball had held the center of stu-
dent interest”; but the 1909 edition ©
commented: “baseball has again
vied with some success against the
enthusiasm for football.”

All this was prophetic, but it
has little to do with Thomas Ed-
ward (“Lefty”) George who has
outlasted a lot of things in the
sports world and might even outlast football. In 1908, he
and Harry Rechtenwald came to Washington and Lee as
pitcher and catcher respectively, George “‘standing the
batters of the Southern colleges on their respective ears.”’

In 1940—August 16 to be exact—‘“Lefty” was still
standing them on their ears. On that date, at the age of
54, he pitched for the York (Pennsylvania) club in the
New York-Pennsylvania League against ‘Trenton and
won by a score of 3-2. And the game went twelve in-
nings! It has been frequently said of Mr. George that

 

Thomas Edward (Lefty) George

he has a “rubber arm,” and it’s a pity that pitchers now-
adays haven't inherited one. He used to pitch game after
game and win it without feeling fatigue afterward; and
at his present age he emerged from his winning battle
against the Trenton Senators, saying, “I’m feeling fine.
Im: not the least Dit: tired’-and
there’s no sign of soreness in the
old arm.”

The old arm has had plenty of
practice. “Lefty” George broke in-
to organized baseball in 1904—
thirty-four years ago — with the
Pittsburgh Collegians. If a mem-_
ber of the team, which was man-
aged by Dick Guy, wasn’t a col-
legian, the manager would make
him one; so George was sent to
Fast Liberty Academy and then to
Washington and Lee. He subse-
quently pitched for Altoona, the
Boston Nationals, the Trenton Tri-
State Leaguers, York, Indianapo-
lis, the St. sLouis and Cleveland
Americans, Toledo, Kansas City,
Cincinnati, Columbus, Boston
again, and Minneapolis. He quit
league baseball in 1921 to pitch for
the York Chain Company team and
settled down there to raise his fam-
ily. In 1923, he returned to organ-
ized baseball with York in the
NYPA League and in the next 11
years won something like 150
games. In 1925, he won 27 and lost
7; In 1924 he struck. out 161 bat
ters for a league record. He also set a mark of 16 straight
wins and 46 consecutive scoreless innings. When York
lost its franchise in 1933, he returned to the sandlots, and
last year he pitched in a county league. Now he’s back
fooling ’em in the league again.

According to the 1909 Calyx the Washington and Lee
season had not been too encouraging in spite of a splen-
did flurry of victories after mid-season, but they set off
this slight note of discouragement by a note about the re-

(Continued on page 22)

ie

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Ugly Club

By Jas. LEwts Howe

LL worK and no play makes Jack a dull boy” was a
A proverb taken seriously to heart by the students of
the later days of Washington College and the early days
of Washington and Lee University. Something was
needed to relieve the tedium of Commencement Week,
with its five days
of speech-mak-
ing beginning
with the Bacca-
laureate Sermon
on Sunday and
ending with the
Address before
the Literary So-
cieties, following
the Graduation
exercises -On
Thuteday. “The
Ucty CLuB was
one phase of the
effervescence of
some four hun-
dred students,
from all parts of
the South, at the
close of nine

Seated from left to right: Hill Carter, Critic; S. Z. Ammen, Lazy Man; Frank

Page, Ugly Man; R. Wickliffe Preston, Little Man. Standing from left to right:

J. Shepherd Clark,** Ladies’ Man; Gabriel Santini, Vain Man; Edmund Berkeley,
Jr., Pretty Man; John Barlow, The Blow.

months of pretty
severe college
work.

On April Fool’s Day, 1867, a group of students
gathered to select by “common consent” nine speakers
under the name of Ucty Crus, who should stage during
Commencement Week a celebration, humorous and satir-
ical, to relieve the more serious exercises of the Week.

There is extant no account of the first celebration, but
it met with such approval on the part of the students that
for a decade it became a feature of “Finals.” The speak-
ers were denominated; Ugly Man, Pretty Man, Vain
Man, Ladies’ Man, Lazy Man, The Blow, Little Man,
The Bore, and Critic. The only glimpse we have of the

 

celebration of 1868 is furnished by Senator Wickham:
‘“Nelse Campbell, afterwards the distinguished Circuit
Judge in West Virginia, Hon. Nelson Campbell, was ‘The
Baby.’ He weighed about 290, was six feet four, and was
given a stick of candy just about as tall as he was, with a
curved handle.”
Regarding the
next celebration,
that of Jine,
1569. we are
more fortunate,
especially in hav-
ing a photograph,
which is here re-
produced, of the

has been furnish-
ed and the indi-
viduals identified
by Senator Wick-
We also
have records in
the Southern Col-
legian, which was

ham.

just completing
its Volume l,and
in the Lexington
Gagette, which
gave a full ac-
count of the exercises. The Collegian of April 3, 1869,
says: “THE Ucty Crus. In accordance with an ancient
practice the election for the honours of the UcLy CLup
was held on the evening of the Ist of April, which re-
sulted as follows:

Uely Mata hs asc Frank Page. (a 5th year man)
Pretty Manus. ee aN Edmund Berkeley. (a senior)
Wan Man igh Gabriel Santini. (a freshman)
Padies . Matin eae J. Sheppard Clark. (a junior)
Peary Mane ie oe S. Z. Ammen. (a junior)
THe BIO We...) once John Barlow. (a sopohomore

 

* His name is so given by Senator Wickham, and also in the Catalogs of 1867 and 1869; in Catalog of 1868 it is given,
J. Sheppard Clarke; in that of 1870 as James Shepherd Clark, and in that of 1871 as J. S. Clark.

[8 |

participants. This

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Little Math... R. W. Preston. (a sophomore)
The Borenessessessseersersesseess seeeeseseneseesesenens a ?
BC cconnacscseees eatin aetna Hill Carter. (a junior)

“These gentlemen are now left to their own reflec-
tions. If they wish to be funny in their speeches let them
devote about six hours every day to wit, and by June
they will become intolerably so.”

eine from the rather flowery account in the
Gazette, we may obtain a glimpse of a typical ‘“‘celebra-
tion.” “Mr. Gurley, the President, introduced with grace
and humour Mr. Frank Page, the “Ugly Man,’ and his
seven confreres of the honoured nine. How Mr. Page
defended the large and respectable class he had been
elected to represent; how Wit sparkled and Humour
smiled, and Truth spoke, could only be well told in Mr.
P’s words, and then only with Mr. P. to tell it. The
‘Pretty Man,’ Mr. Edmund Berkeley, invoked the Muse,
and evidently she could do nothing less and nothing else
than Crockett’s coon, ‘come down.’ * * * The ‘Little Man,’
Mr. R. W. Preston, proclaimed himself the pet of Waltz
& Finster, (their advertisement in the Collegian offers
‘A large supply of Wines, Liquors, Havana, German and
Domestic Cigars, Smoking and Chewing Tobacco, &c.’),
and declared a purpose to spend a season at Saratoga and
Newport, give himself to New York during the autumnal
months, sojourn amid the savannas of the South in the
winter, visit Paris, and settle at—Jacktown! * * * we
may take up without delay the case of the ‘Lazy Man,’
though none but a lineal descendant of the Welsh giants
would undertake such a thing with good hope of success.
Mr. $. Z. Ammen has the proportions of an Alderman or
Abbot, and proves beyond a reasonable doubt that a man
need not forswear their potations in order to be fat. We
hope he will always be sure he is right before he becomes
the advocate of any cause: for the logic of Monday eve-
ning begets the fear that he may make the worse appear
the better reason.”

It may be noted that Mr. Ammen, who while in Col-
lege was considered “the most intellectual collegian,” be-
caine later the distinguished editor of the Baltimore Sun;
J. Sheppard Clarke became editor of El C omercio, a
Spanish business organ published in New York; and the
father of Gabriel Santini some three years later founded
the Santini Medal for the best essay in the Southern
Collegian.

The celebration of 1870 was distinguished by a poem
by the Ugly Man, Mr. Noah B. Feagin, entitled “Maid
and Beef of Athens,” worth quoting in part:

“Beef of Athens, ere we part,
Give, oh, give my muse a start;
Let her now inspire me well,
And of thy toughness nobly tell.
Hear my song, consummate bore;
Soon my jaws shall ache no more.

By those cattle unconfined,

So lean and lame, so old and blind;
By the bones that hold their meat
Which is far too tough to eat;

By these I vow forevermore
Rockbridge beef I’ll eat no more.

Let it be boil’d, bak’d or. fri'd,
Stew’d or hash’d, hoof, horn and hide,
Flavor’d to a high extent

With every kind of condiment

Still, I vow as once before,
Rockbridge beef I’ll eat no more.

Beef of Athens, I am done,

A word that you have never known,—

Dun or raw, what boots it now,

Since I leave this tough old cow

To the student and cadet

Whose hunger’s keen,—teeth well set:
Yow pet”

The celebration of this year was marred by the col-
lapse of the speaker’s stand by the crowd pressing against
it, and several of the small boys close to it were injured,
one having his leg broken. Happily none of the lamps
used for illumination exploded.

In 1871, the election meeting of April lst was de-
scribed in the Collegian as decidedly boisterous; unfortu-
nately no account of the celebration can be found, but
that it must have been pretty rank may be inferred from
a resolution of the Faculty that hereafter all speeches
must be submitted to them before delivery. That some-
thing was evidently ‘in the air’ may be guessed from a
reference in the Collegian a propos of the Ugly Club
election of 1872 wherein we read: ““We would advise the
speakers to refrain from old jokes upon the town, the
old maids, and Rockbridge beef. We would also request
of the gentlemen to be as careful as they can in their
jokes. Nothing which approaches in the least to in-
delicacy should be allowed by them to go into their
speeches. It does not take. * * *’” However the resolu-
tion of the Faculty and the suggestions of the Collegian
seem to have been of no avail, and the 1872 celebration
resulted two days after in the disbarment by the Faculty
of the ‘Ladies’ Man’ from the University. Two years
later, however, at the earnest solicitation of the Alumni
Association of his home city the censure was removed.

The following year, 1873, there seems to have been
no celebration of the Ugly Club, but in 1874 the Club
was revived and for two Commencements was a very

Le |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

attractive if perhaps rather tame feature of Finals. Of
the 1875 celebration the Collegian says: “it was the best

that we have had for years,—speeches short and funny.

May its repetition in coming years be as successful, is
the wish of all.” It did not, however, inspire sufficient
interest to bring about a celebration in 1876, and while
one was held in 1877, it was not considered of sufficient
importance for the Collegian to devote over fifteen lines
to it. The 1877 celebration was the swan-song of the
Ugly Club; the attendance at the University was rap-

“Such Is the Kingdom"

Sucu Is tHé Kincpom. By Thomas Sugrue. New York:

Henry Holt and Co., 1940.

Alumni who remember how ‘Tom Sugrue revived the
Southern Collegian, edited the Calya, wrote the Trouba-
dour shows, and did any other job with the pen, serious
or comic, that needed to be done during his four years at
Lexington, will not be surprised that he is a professional
writer or that he has just published one of the most beau-
tifully written novels of modern times. The story of how
he came to write it is all compact of tragedy, romance, and
melodrama. On the Herald Tribune ‘Yom learned to dis-
cipline his once too flowery style. Eventually he became
Associate Editor of the. American Magazine, was pub-
lishing in several class magazines, had ghosted a_best-
selling travel book, was making a reputation and ten thou-
sand a year.

Then, when he was not quite thirty, fate struck him
with her heaviest artillery. He was smitten down with
arthritis, unable to get out of bed, unable to move his legs
or his left arm. But the brain and the right arm remained,
and he wrote with a pencil, in continual pain, a book the
leading quality of which is its gusto, its vitality, its mag-
nificent affirmation of life.

Sugrue is Irish, and the book is a story of the Irish
people on Kelly Hill in his home town about 1910. The
central character is a little boy, Jamie O’ Mahaney, who, in
his seventh year, awakens to the facts of God, and sin,
and death, and love. The academic critic might be tempted
to say that, sympathetic and penetrating as is the treat-
ment of Jamie, the spotlight is not sufficiently focused on
him. But the truth is that as Atlanta is the heroine of Gone

with the Wind, so Kelly Hill is the protagonist of Such [s

the Kingdom. The magnificent midnight fight of Dermot
©’ Mahaney and Potatoes Burke, with The Black O’Fla-
herty and Meadowlegs Fahy as audience; the ironic medi-
tation of Dr, Delehanty on the respective virtues of his old

idly approaching an all-time low, which was reached in
1881, when only 96 students were enrolled. Several of
the Greek Letter Fraternities had surrendered their
Charters, there were not enough students to go around,
and all extra-curriculum activities waned. Nothing re-
sembling the Ugly Club has since appeared upon the
campus. For ten years it played its part, at times well, at
times ill, often affording innocent amusement but more
often with too much sting and vulgarity, ill suited to the
traditions of Washington and Lee. Requiescat in pace!

by Tom Sugrue, 1930

mare and his wife, “The fairest note that was ever
plucked from the strings of the harp of Maguire’; the
rich account of the wake of the O’Mahaney, where the
characters of the whole community perform at their best
until they are roared down by the crashing epithets of that
golden-hearted girl, Mrs. Dirty-mouth McCluskey—these
are the things one remembers most vividly, and in them
little Jamie has a minor part. And, faith, why not, with
him nothing but a child ? |

The gifts of Sugrue are those of the very great writer.
The first is for characterization. The reader of this book —
will simply not forget Whip McVey, or Mallick O’Ma-.—
haney, or Blackie O'Flaherty, or J. Francis Corrigan,
Undertaker, or Martin Brady, Saloon-keeper, or Wake-
master Dineen, or Dr. Delehanty, or Aunt Judy, or Mrs.
McCluskey, or even Gumshoe Gannon of the police. They
are created beings who live and breathe and are unforget-
table.

The second gift of Sugrue, which he shares with the
ereatest artists, is his profound sense of the tragic des-
tiny and the comic richness of mankind. The book is full
of comedy, low and high, and yet it broods upon ultimate
things.

A third great gift of Sugrue’s is the gusto, the vitality,
the zest with which he treats his theme and brings it alive.

And the fourth quality is his prose style. With the
single exception of Steinbeck, he writes the best prose this
reviewer has seen in a decade. The efflorescence of his
younger style has become a restrained richness or a whet-
ted blade, according to the occasion.

One well may say with Stephen Vincent Benet, who
read the book in manuscript for the publishers:

“T think it is a highly promising piece of work—more
than promising—genuine and human. It has both the dirt
and the high imagination. ... I am all for Mr. Sugrue.”

—FYTTZGERALD FLOURNOY

[ 10 |

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Twenty Years a Mayor

ton and Lee alumnus who was known in college, ac-
cording to the 1915 Calya, as “G-port Joe.” Today there
must be few dissenting voices in calling him Gulfport’s

>" in Gulfport, Mississippi, there lives a Washing-

outstanding citizen.

The above-mentioned Calyx speaks of him as _ that
“unusual combination” of a good ath-
lete and a good student, and the ability
he showed as a law student here from
1913-1915 has certainly gone along
with him in later life, for today he is
not only the operator of the Coca Cola
Bottling Company in his home city,
but he owns and operates a successful
military school, is one of the directors
of a college, and, to top it all off, has
been Mayor of Gulfport continuously
for sixteen years! It is surely no sur-
prise that he has been awarded cups
for outstanding community service by
both the Elks and the Chamber of
Commerce.

Joseph William Milner was born
in Columbiana, Alabama, on the 23rd
day of January, 1882. His family
moved from that town when he was a
few years old to Anniston, Alabama,
then to Gulfport, when he was thir-
teen. He went through the Gulfport
High School, three years at the Marion Military Institute
at Marion, Alabama, and then entered Washington and
Lee. For the university he played baseball and football
While also making a fine record studying law. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma and of White Friars. He
took his LL.B. and then passed the Mississippi and Ala-
bama bar examinations. For a few months in 1916 he was
a lawyer, having formed a legal partnership with the firm
of Saxon and Acuff in Shelby County, Alabama. He was
then called home by the illness of his father, after whose
death in 1916 he took over the Coca Cola business which
he has operated ever since.

In 1924 he was elected Mayor of Gulfport, which
town has not wished to select another one in sixteen
years of good government. This year he was elected for
another four-year term without opposition.

 

The Hon. Joseph William Milner, 1915

In 1934 he became interested in the Gulf Coast Mili-
tary Academy, a military high school, which annually en-
rolls some three hundred and fifty boys. Mr. Milner is
now president of the company operating the school, and
chairman of the board. The military academy is an un-
usually good one, having an honor rating with the United
States War Department. It might be
added that the academy sends some of
its graduates each year to Washington
and Lee.

You might think that the interests
listed above would be enough for any
one man, or even two, but Mayor
Milner’s activities do not stop there by
any means. He is a director of Gulf
Park College which is situated in
Gulfport and is a junior college of
high standing and a nationwide pat-
ronage. He is also a director in the
Hancock Bank; and charter member
and past president of the Gulfport
Kiwanis Club. In addition he is a
member of the executive board of the
American Bottlers of Carbonated Bev-
erages, the national organization of the
bottling industry. And he still has time
to watch football games, play golf, and
go fishing and hunting occasionally !

 

An award for community service
was certainly merited by this citizen, a credit to his city
and his alma mater.

 

W. F. Moore, 1892, was named Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of Texas by Governor O’Daniel last
spring. He is to serve the remainder of the term of the
late C. M. Cureton and will then stand for election.

Mr. Moore, a descendant of one of Texas’ oldest fam-
ilies, took a law degree from the University of ‘Texas.
At Washington and Lee he was a Latin scholar, at the
University of Texas a debater and incidentally the
founder of Texas’ first football team. For forty-five
years he practiced law in the town of Paris and gained
statewide recognition for his work as leading counsel in
the famous McDonald case in which he recovered more
than a million dollars for the University of Texas.

tits

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

New Buildings

THOSE who noticed the story in our issue of last May
concerning the rebuilding of the library and the two dor-
mitories may wish to know how the work is progressing.
The answer right now would seem to be “not too well” —
because of circumstances beyond the university’s control.
For one thing, supplies were held up during the summer,
and the contractors were not able to get material when it
was needed. More important, however, was the weather,
which in Lexington this summer is said to have consisted
almost entirely of rain.

However, when we returned here this. fall, we could
see unmistakable signs that a great deal had been ac-
complished even at that. The library dome—its most
characteristic part—has disappeared, and the building has
grown to about twice its former size. There are new pil-
lars going up on the campus side where the front steps
used to be. The inside, however, appears to contain prac-
tically nothing at all. (This was in September. )

The library would have been farther along, but it was
obvious that whatever else happened the dormitory would
have to be finished by the opening of school unless we
wanted to continue freshman camp on the baseball field.
Hence the main effort has been with the dormitory con-
struction. You would be amazed at the result 1f you were
to stand right now on Washington Street where it goes
down back of the gymnasium and see the really vast-
appearing stretch of building caused by the connecting
wing between the two old dorms. This wall has a portico
in the middle where an arch brings one into what will be
the attractive new courtyard. All in all, it looks fine, and
the rooms, modern and attractive, ought to be an 1m-
mense improvement from the point of view of their fu-
ture occupants.

The only trouble we can report is that to dry out the
new plaster, the college heat has had to be turned on in
the dorms and everywhere else, and if you can imagine
working in an office in Lexington in early September
with a radiator blazing at your elbow, you will know
where we are now!

 

K. I. McKay, 1904, was elected chairman of the
Board of Trustees of the University of Tampa last spring.
Since being admitted to the Florida bar in 1904, Mr.
~ McKay has been a prominent attorney in Tampa and has
taken a keen interest in the university's development.

 

Dr. WiLLt1AM MosELEY Brown, 1914, was the Wash-
ington and Lee representative at the inauguration of the
new president of Hunter College,

About Our Cover

THE COVER of this issue of the Alumni Magazine is the
first published picture of the new Dormitories. It was
taken by student ‘Tom Fleming. We hope to follow this
with both interior and exterior views of the Dormitories
and the new McCormick Library, which will be ready for
occupancy January first. The frontispiece is a closeup of
the center arch of the dormitories.

 

It’s NOT SURPRISING for a man to capitalize on his
college ball-playing after he graduates, but usually it’s
done in the big leagues. Apparently not given to the usual,
however, Kenneth Routon, 1932, much better known
when he was at Washington and Lee as “Big Island,” or
simply “Big,” seems to have used his outstanding ability
as a shortstop to get into the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation.

After graduation, “Big Island” became player-man-
ager for the Craddock-Terry team in Lynchburg, and the
story is that while this club was playing against the F’.B.I.
team, the G-Men were so impressed with his ability that
they asked him to play for them. He accepted the offer,
took a night-school course in law, passed the District of
Columbia bar exams, and was officially named an agent of
the Bureau. After a six weeks’ course of training at
Quantico, he will join the department.

 

Davin D. Jounson, 1921, of Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania, who is vice-president of the Republic Pipe Line
Company and Duval Pipe Line Company, secretary-
treasurer of the Hiawatha Oil and Gas Company, and a
director of these and other oil concerns, was recently
elected to the Board of Directors of the Colonial Trust
Company, a Pittsburgh bank.

 

Commemorative Plates

The Plates which were ordered last Decem-
ber from the Wedgwood Company in Eng-
land have not been received in this country.
The samples were received in the Alumni
Office during the summer. We have been in-
formed by the Wedgwood representatives in
Boston that the plates are being manufac-
tured and will be delivered just as soon as war
conditions make this possible. They are still
receiving Wedgwood china, and assure us
that they expect delivery.

 

 

 

[12 |

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRONT ROW: (left to right): Harrison Hogan, Dan Justic2, Junie Bishop, Simmons Trueheart, Steve Hanasik, Howard

Dobbins, Capt. Jack Mangan, Tyke Bryan, Bobby Pinck, Bert Kadis, Bob Gary, Preston Brown, Dick Pinck, Duke

Wadlington. SECOND ROW: Coach Hennemier, John Rulevich, Paul Skillman, Frank Russell, Jim Daves, Lillard Ailor,

Connie Inman, Beverly Fitzpatrick, John Raaen, Johnny Ligon, Jim Wheater, Joe Baugher, Bert Nelson, Bill Gray,

Coach Smith. THIRD ROW: Coach Cunningham, Frank Socha, Charlie Didier, Floyd McKenna, Perry Simmons, Monk

Mattox, Dick Mayo, Roy Fabian, Ted Pearson, Joe Hubbard, Ted Ciesla, Coach Tilson. TOP MIDDLE: Al Overton,
Junior Manager; Doc Boyd, Trainer; Jim Price, Jr., Manager.

The Generals of 1940

By Lea Boorn, Director of Sports Information

ust as baseball leagues through the nation split their
J seasons into two halves, so might the 1940 football Gen-
erals theoretically divide their high-voltage, ten- game
schedule. With a count of two and three booked on the

Washington and Lee sports ledger (in-
cluding one foul), the Generals, to per-
sist with our baseball jargon, are far
from out and should reach home stand-
ing up. The mythical home we mention
deals with final percentages of victories
against defeats.

Any sports scribe can apply his
biased fingers to the keyboard and say
that neither scores, nor the statistics,
tell the truth about a ball game. Believe
us, that may be even more accentuated
in regard to the lurid record of this
year’s W. and L. football forces.

For example we offer the outstand-
ing ““gyp” ever accorded a Washington
and Lee football team—that suffered at
the hands of an official in the fully-
publicized George Washington Univer-
sity game at Homecoming.

Coaches here have tried to forget it,

 

 

 

~

CAPTAIN JACK MANGAN
Center

[13 ]

have quite logically insisted that the team put it away and
face the grim future, but nevertheless, the incident involv-
ing the referee’s decision against the Generals on October
12 is still being debated in Lexington’s Monday Morning

Coaches Society.

As highly incensed over the adverse
verdict of Referee Dutch Eberts of
Catholic University as anyone directly
or indirectly involved were the several
alumni who have shown definite inter-
est with written protests which have
reached Lexington.

For those scattered alumni who
were not fortunate enough to have wit-
nessed the terrific encounter with GW’'s
fine eleven on Homecoming Day, it
might be appropriate to briefly review
the facts as seen from the press box, as
gathered later in authoritative conver-
sation, and as depicted by the infallible

motion pictures of the game.

Shifted from the tailback post to a
position at the so-called wingback (list-
ed in line-ups as Lelt Halfback), Dick
Pinck, the Paterson, IN. 242.9 Tanner,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

DICK PINCK
Back

stabbed a pass from sophomore Johnny Ligon in the sec-
ond quarter and sprinted seventy-odd yards for the first
touchdown. In the third period, the superior weight and
reserve strength of the potent Colonials began to smother
the Generals’ fire. Following two rapid GW touchdowns
and trailing by 7-13, Pinck recovered a fumble on the vis-
itors’ thirty-yard line and the second W-L, scoring drive
was culminated when burly Frank Socha, the Generals’
nervy sophomore fullback, battered through the line for
the tying touchdown. Socha, cool as one of Doc Flick’s
home-grown cucumbers, booted his second placement for
the extra point.

The Colonials, paced by an official timekeeper who
announced four-and-a-half minutes to play, launched a
power-laden drive on their own 35 and three minutes
later were knocking hard at the Generals’ door, finally
scoring on a 23-yard off-tackle dash by Ed Wilamoski.

Receiving the kickoff with one minute remaining, the
loyal determination which Coach Tex Tilson always seems
to be able to instill into his men began to assert itself.
Their line-up studded with reserve material, the dramatic
Generals started a drive deep in their own territory, and
abetted by several lengthy penalties forced on the GWs
for their own reckless roughness, Tilson’s club bounded
right back into the ball game.

Joe Baugher, the stubby-legged reserve tailback, rock-
eted a sharp pass to Simmons Trueheart, the Generals’
veteran end, for a thirteen-yard gain and a first down on
the GW three-yard line.

Dan Justice, the Lynchburg lad who quite appropri-

SIMMONS TRUEHEART
End

 

 

BOBBY PINCK
Back

ately scored the first touchdown last year in his home city’s
beautiful new stadium, arose from obscurity into sensa-
tional fame on the following two plays.

With bare seconds remaining, “the Chief’ wormed
through from the three-yard line but both sides were off-
side and a new play was ordered with the game officially
over. (Note: The fact that time remained for one play
previous to the offsides made another effort legal). So
Justice—and the name is ironical here—set himself for
another try.

The pass was good and the Lynchburger drove
straight into his own right guard, dove head-first over
the mass and landed in the end zone with the head lines-
man rushing in with arm raised to indicate the score.

But (and don’t we hate that word)! Referee Eberts
refused to flash the same signal and came in to veto the
decision, calling for the ball on the one-foot line, later
(and much too much later) bellowing that Justice’s knee
had touched the ground and the ball was downed auto-
matically just short of scoring territory.

The usually serene collegiate atmosphere which all
alumni can remember as Lexington, was stirred to terrific
intensity. Motion pictures were rushed through the de-
veloping process and for all amount of figuring, not one
single observer has been able to detect a flaw in the final
touchdown drive of one Dan Justice.

Governor Price, after viewing the movies at a recent
meeting of the Richmond alumni chapter and after talking
with the calm, quiet-spoken fullback personally, issued a
public statement to a Richmond newspaper defying the

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

LL

official’s ruling. Chauncey Durden, sports editor of The
Times-Dispatch in Richmond, ran the picture off for
himself on four occassions and rendered the same com-
ment. Cawthon Bowen, sports editor of the nearby Roan-
oke Times, carried a series of still photos taken from the
movie film, showing foundation for the unprecedented
“crying” which emanated from the W. and L. campus.

‘But in spite of all manner of maneuvering the issue,
the game has been docketed, once and for all, as George
Washington 20, W. and L. 14.

Progressing chronologically from there, fortunately
the mental effect of the fierce battle waged against the
opponents from Washington was favorable. The last-
ditch fighters from I,exington moved into Richmond the
following Saturday for their first conference and “Big
Six” argument of the season—the all-important hich-
mond University battle.

Thwarted in several previous scoring attempts, the
Generals called upon the same Frank Socha who had per-
formed so heroically in the GW contest. After Dick Pinck
had engulfed a Richmond pass on the Spiders’ 40-yard
line with three minutes to play, the Boys in Blue pilfered
the Richmond defensive for several aerial gains down
to the three-yard line.

Socha, glorified on the preceding Saturday, tore onto
the playing field like an enraged bull let out of his pas-
ture. Carrying instructions to bang the line until it gave,
Socha smashed through a hole but the Generals were set
back to the eight-yard line on a penalty. Johnny Ligon,
who had directed the passing attack which set up the scor-

 

 

 

 

JUNIE BISHOP
Back

 

PRESTON BROWN
Back

[ime]

ing possibility, let the leather slide from his fingers and
recovered back on the sixteen.

Into the game came Justice, likewise sharer in the
spotlight the week before. Justice actually did put his
knee on the ground at this point, and rubbed his hands
for the pass from center. With Justice holding, Socha
arched a field goal from the 26-yard line and the Generals
were in, 3-0, with forty seconds left in the ball game.

As a result, a tired and shell-shocked squad entered
the VPI classic billed as the “never a dull climax” Gen-
erals. But many more photo finishes and no ordinary
nerves could withstand it.

Re-tracing the steps taken by Tilson’s 1940 edition,
the squad opened on September 21 with an impressive
26-0 triumph over a perennially scrappy Hampden-Syd-
ney team.

On the following Saturday, Vanderbilt’s vastly-1m-
proved bruisers were forced to an aerial game before out-
distancing the game Generals, 19-0. Vandy tallied with a
minute remaining in the first half after being battled
right off their own ground, and this score was maneuvered
only by a long pass into the end zone.

Kentucky’s alert Wildcats victimized the courageous
Blue fighters, 47-12, when the Generals were unfortunate
enough to catch the flying Kentuckians on the day they
were destined to “get right.”

But, here is where the score does not indicate the
drift of the tide. The out-classed Generals counted twice
against the Wildcats’ first-string eleven, something that
neither Vanderbilt, George Washington, St. Xavier nor

 

 

 

 

JOHNNY LIGON
Back

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Baldwin-Wallace
were able to accom-
plish. T'wo . stirring
goalward marches
featured the pair of
W.& L. touchdowns,
and had it not been
for a score in the last
ten seconds of the
first half and a touch-
down jaunt by Noah
Mullins, Kentucky’s
great halfback, on the
opening kickoff of the
second half the ball
game might have eas-

 

 

 

 

JOHN RULEVICH
Tackle

ily been a “ripper.” ‘Two touchdowns,
both by the barest of margins within
twenty seconds, might have demoral-
ized any other football club, but a Lex-
ington, Ky., newspaper described the
situation with an observant headline
crediting the Generals with having “Put
Up a Good Scrap.”

Washington and Lee is facing the
toughest schedule in a decade this year
with a squad numbering 22 sophomores
among its total 38 men. The coaching
staff has shown untold patience in de-
veloping these sophs into front-line at-
tackers. As one battered rookie ex-
pressed it, ‘‘we may not have won a lot of ‘em, but we have
learned some football that might pay big dividends later
in the season.’ And that is, in this writer’s humble opin-
ion, an able summary of the facts. Meeting Vanderbilt,
Kentucky, and George Washington on successive week-
ends might easily have wrecked anybody's football team.
But not the Generals. They came right back to gain a top-
flight position in the state and Southern Conference the
following week-end in Richmond and they’ll be in there
battling right up through the final minute of the Mary-
land game, November 30.

Sophomores must learn the hard way. Many local ob-
servers have commented on the terrific pressure under
which the squad has worked. In leu of the schedule, the
Generals buckled down on September 2, dug in and stuck

 

BILL GRAY
Guard

to its guns in one of the most active campaigns ever re-
membered here. Gruelling scrimmages have brought in-
juries but how other than by scrimmaging could the
schedule be attempted? The boys have digested their diff-
culties and never uttered a murmur. It should “pay divi-
dends before this season is over.”

Remaining games after the VPI contest at Lynchburg
will send the Big Blue scampering across the Alleghenies
to Charleston on November 2 for the annual affair with
West Virginia’s tough Mountaineers. The following
week-end they go to Charlottesville to renew the rivalry
with, needless to say, the University of Virginia, Thence
to Chattanooga and a game with Sewanee, An open date
follows before the finale with Maryland on November 30
at College Park.

Prior to games with Maryland and Virginia Tech,
Washington and Lee’s undefeated and
untied Brigadiers had posted victories
over Staunton Military, Virginia frosh,
and the Richmond frosh.

Eddie Marx, an exceedingly prom-
ising tailback from New Britain, Conn.,
home of Captain Jack Mangan, John
Rulevich, Bill Gray and Roy Fabian of
the varsity, was chosen to captain the
Brigs in the opener at $.M.A. Marx
was the recipient of a grave bit of mis-
fortune when he broke his leg in the
first quarter of the game, thereby re-

tiring until spring practice begins.

I'rank Di Loreto, one
of the best looking
tackle prospects in re-
cent years who also
lists New Britain as
home, was on the re-
ceiving end of a well-
placed exhibition of
clipping in the Vir-
ginia contest and has
missed recent ses-
sions. Paul Cavaliere
is a third frosh foot-
baller from New
Britain.

 

 

JOE BAUGHER
Back

[ 16 |

 

 

 

 

| aT
=? at
The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University > 1G- 1%

General Items

Manager of this year’s varsity 1s Jit Price, |r.,sen
of another distinguished W. and LL. alumnus, Governor
James H. Price of Virginia. ... The varsity’s Joe Baugher
has a kid brother, Harry, sontordee brilliantly in the
freshman backfield this year... . Jim Daves, a sophomore
end, is a nephew of the colorful Ralph (Decoy) Daves
who played end at W. & L. in ’23, ’24, ’25. Uncle Ralph,
who now manages the Lexington theaters, played side-by-
side with Tex Tilson. Among the new alumni are

five members of last year’s football squad. Captain Dick
Boisseau, the all-state and all-Southern tackle, has just
announced his engagement to his college romance partner,
Miss Barbara Higgins of Front Royal who attended
neighboring Hollins. Dick is working with the Federal

. Kelly Lit-

Housing Administration in Washington.

teral, regular tackle on last year’s squad, is working in
Ashland, Ky. ... Francis (Slugger) Sugrue, brother of
W. and L,.’s Tom Sugrue, is on the staff of The New York
Flerald-Tribune. . .
guard of the 1939 squad is back in town doing ‘‘graduate

. Jim Lindsey, the roly-poly all-state

work” and playing pro football with the Roanoke club of
the Dixie League. . . . Ronnie Thompson, halfback and
captain of the ’39 baseballers, is teaching and coaching all
sports at the Hot Springs, Va., high school. . . . Balfour
Mattox, a sophomore back, is a nephew of the famous
Mattox brothers who helped give Washington and Lee a
place in the athletic sun... . Captain Jack Mangan, the
fiery little center whom coaches have considered the best
in the state for two years, has made a large percentage of
the tackles this year but nary a bad heave from center.
His teammates swear by him.

 

1940 COACHING |: STAFF: Warren E. (Tex) Tilson, Head Coach; Riley Smith, Backfield Coach; Jack Hennemier, Line
Coach: and Harold (Cookie) Cunningham, End Coach

Eo

LIBRARY OF

“74 F TAT} Fal ta

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSIFY
LEJSINC i | GI

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In Memoriam

Dr. JAMES Harpy Ditrarp, of the class of 1876,
died on the second of August, 1940, in Charlottesville. A
nationally-known educator, he was chiefly noted for his
work on behalf of the negro.

Dr. Dillard was born in 1856 in Nansemond County,
Virginia. After graduation with an M.A. degree, he was
made assistant professor of mathematics at Washington
and Lee and taught here from 1876-1877. After serving
as principal of Rodman School of Norfolk and Norfolk
Academy, he taught at Washington University in St.
Louis and was dean of the academic colleges at ‘Tulane
from 1904-1907. He held honorary degrees from Wash-
ington and Lee, Tulane, and Harvard.

In 1937 Dr. Dillard was presented with the Roosevelt
Medal for “‘sixty years of wise and devoted work in be-
half of the American negro.” He also held the Harmon
Foundation gold medal, presented to him in 1928 with
$500 for the promotion of good relations between the
races and for improving negro educational facilities in the
South.

He was president of the Jeans Foundation for the 1m-
provement of negro education from 1907-1931; director
and later president of the John F. Slater funds, now
known as the Southern Educational Foundation ; founder
of the Southern University Race Commission which as-
sisted many negroes to obtain higher education; Ameri-
can representative on the East African Commission in
1914 which studied the negro in Africa; president of the
National Conference of Church Clubs; member of the
general education board; and rector of the College of
William and Mary.

He is survived by his second wife and nine children.

Me

Mr. EpmuND DE MoNvTEL, who was a law school
graduate of the class of 1879, died on the eleventh of
February at his home in Hondo, Texas. He had prac-
ticed law in Medina County for more than sixty years.
He was born in Castroville and practiced law there as
well as in San Antonio before settling in Hondo. His
legal specialty was land law, and he was an outstanding
expert in this field.

He is survived by his wife, three sons, two daughters,
and one sister. ar

STEPHEN D. TIMERLAKE, Jr., 1895, died suddenly in
Staunton, Viginia, on September 18. Since graduation

he had practiced law in Staunton, and was one of the
best-known attorneys in western Virginia.

Mr. Timberlake was born in Staunton in 1874 and
was prepared for college at the Staunton Military Acad-
emy of which he was president at the time of his death.
Between 1904 and 1908 he was city attorney of Staunton,
and he appeared in many leading state and federal cases.
Of recent years, having abandoned the Democratic
party, he was one of the most prominent leaders among
the Jeffersonian Democrats. This fall he made the prin-
cipal speech at a meeting of the Staunton-Augusta
Willkie Democratic club.

He 1s survived by his widow and two children.

FEDERAL JUDGE HEARTSILL Racon, LL.B. 1908, died
suddenly at his home in Fort Smith, Arkansas, on Sep-
tember 15. He was fifty-five years old.

Judge Ragon was born in Dublin, Arkansas, and at-
tended the College of the Ozarks and the University of
Arkansas before taking his law degree here. After begin-
ning practice in Clarksville, Arkansas, he ran success-
fully for the state legislature in which he served from
1911-1913. From 1916-1920 he was District Prosecuting
Attorney. He was then elected, in 1923, to the United
States House of Representatives where he served for ten
years. When President Roosevelt appointed him to the
federal bench for the Western District of Arkansas, he
was a member of the House Ways and Means Commit-
tee and known as an expert on tax questions. He re-
signed to take the judgeship in 1933.

Re Re

LeicH WILLIAMS, 1932, one of the finest all-round
athletes ever to attend Washington and Lee or any other
school, died on July 11th at his home in Norfolk after a
lingering illness.

No one who was in any way connected with Washing-
ton and Lee during his career here could fail to remember
Leigh Williams. Those who were not in school at the
time will recall him, perhaps, as an athlete only, but those
who were here will think of him not only as a great ath-
lete but as an exceptional personality.

For Washington and Lee he played end on the foot-
ball team, center in basketball, first base in baseball; and —
ran the 440 in track; and when he graduated he had won ~
12 letters. A Norfolk columnist spoke of him as “the

[ 18 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

oo
last of the great all-round college stars in the Old Do-
minion.”

An exceptionally popular man here, he was a member
of Phi Kappa Sigma, Sigma, and O.D.K. On leaving
Lexington, after one year as freshman football coach,
Leigh took a job as head coach at the Augusta Military
Academy. He gave up coaching after a few years and at
the time of his death was a member of the insurance firm
of Moore and Williams in Norfolk. He was also active
there as football official and as a member of the Opti-
mists Club and the Junior Chamber of Commerce.

Knowing that he had not long to live, Leigh was said
by his friends in Norfolk to be perfectly cheerful and to
show courage seldom matched, and: this, to those who
knew Leigh Williams is as it naturally would have been.

His wife, his parents, and one sister survive him.

 

John M. Glenn "79, Honored

Mr. JoHN M. GLENN, of the class of 1879, recently
received the Leslie Dana Gold Medal awarded annually
by Mr. Leshe Dana of St. Louis through the St. Louis
Society for the Blind for outstanding achievements in the
prevention of blindness and the conservation of vision.
The medal, a greatly-prized award in the field of public
health, is given upon recommendation of the Association
for Research in Ophthalmology.

Mr. Glenn, a native of Baltimore and a lawyer, was
honored chiefly on account of his work with the Society
for the Prevention of Blindness. He has been one of the
board of directors for thirty years and became honorary
vice-president in 1938. In the early years of the organi-
zation he did a great deal toward obtaining necessary
funds.

After receiving his M.A. here in 1879, Mr. Glenn
studied two years at Johns Hopkins and received his
LL.B. from the University of Maryland in 1882. He
Was given an honorary M.A. by Hopkins in 1902 and an
honorary LL.D. by Washington and Lee in 1907.

 

The alumini office recently received the following an-
nhouncement from THomas JEAN Exits of the class of
fo23:

‘Thomas Jean Ellis, formerly of Miami, announces
his resignation as an assistant attorney general of Florida
and the opening of a new office for the practice of law
and equity in the State and Federal courts and for repre-
sentations before the State Boards and Commissions, at
rooms 23-24-25, Centennial Building, Tallahassee, Flor-
ida, Telephone 813. W. P. (Paul) Shelley, Jr., of Talla-
hassee, will be an associate.”

Kenneth C. Whittle ‘14, New Head

of Virginia Bar Association

NEw PRESIDENT of the Virginia Bar Association,
elected at the organization's annual meeting at White
Sulphur Springs on August 10, is KENNon C. WHITTLE
of Martinsville, Virginia, who has previously served the
association as chairman of
its executive committee.

A lifelong resident of
Martinsville, where he was
born October 12, 1891,
Mr. Whittle was educated
in Martinsville Public
Schools and at Washing-
ton and Lee University,
where he graduated in law
in 1914. Admitted to the
Virginia bar the same year,
he has been engaged in the
general practice of law,
both criminal and civil, at Martinsville for the past twenty-

 

Six years.

While a student at Washington and Tee Mr. Whittle
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Phi
Delta Phi, White Friar, and other college organiza-
tions.

He is a member of the Democratic State Central
Committee and was a delegate to the Democratic Con-
vention in Chicago in 1932. In 1933 he served on the
convention to repeal the Eighteenth Amendment.

Mr. Whittle has been active in the civic and social
affairs of Martinsville, and is a member of the Knights
of Pythias, the Kiwanis Club, and the Masons. During
the World War he rendered service in the 6th Virginia
Coast Artillery Corps.

He is married and has two children. His father,
Judge S. G. Whittle, was also a graduate of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School.

 

Brity Hoy, 1932, is back at Hopkins this winter as a
Fellow. He is preparing his disseration for publication,
and then will begin a new research project. He is con-
ducting research for the Maryland Historical Society.
The fourth and last installment of his documentary ar-
ticles on. Washington and Lee in 1834, will appear in the
October issue of the Virginia Magazine of History. He
has had other articles this year in the Maryland Historical
Magazine and in New York History.

PT

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A New Treasurer and Financial System

HE Loss to the university occasioned by the death of

Mr. Paul M. Penick last March would be difficult to
estimate because, as most alumni know, his activities in
behalf of Washington and Lee were far more numerous
and varied than those which an ordinary college treasurer
is called upon to perform. To fill his place would be cor-
respondingly difficult. Yet it did not probab-
ly require long deliberation on the part of the
trustees to come to the conclusion at their
final meeting that 1f anyone could carry on
the treasurer’s office, it would be Earl S.
Mattingly, 1925, who, since 1920, has been
Washington and Lee’s very capable registrar.

For the present, Mr. Mattingly is continu-
ing as registrar as well as treasurer. To carry
on duties in the office of registrar, however,
that he could not possibly undertake under
the circumstances, an assistant registrar has
been appointed. The holder of this office is
W. Magruder Drake, A.B. of 1936 and M.A.
of 1937. Recent graduates will remember Drake as an
outstanding student here for five years, a member of Delta
Tau Delta and of Phi Beta Kappa. Alumni of an earlier
period may recall his father, Mr. Winbourn Drake of the
class of 1897, or possibly his mother, the former Miss
Mildred Myers who was a Lexington girl. Since 1937, the
new assistant registrar has been working with the Fidelity
and Deposit Company of Maryland, a sort of experience
which should help him in his new work.

To write a great deal about Mr. Mattingly would be
largely superfluous, as there must be few readers of the
Magazine who are not personally acquainted with him.
He has been here since 1916 and has acted as registrar
since 1920. The efficiency with which his office was carried
on has become almost proverbial; his memory for stu-
dents’ names and faces is well-known to be amazing,
while his popularity with them is deserved. His new
title will be Secretary and Treasurer of the University,
and he will also take Mr. Penick’s place as secretary of the
Board of Trustees and of their executive committee. As
registrar, he is secretary to the faculty, so that he is about
everything at once, as you can see!

In connection with this new arrangement 1n university
affairs, it should also be of interest to many alumni to
learn about the recently-devised method of handling the

 

E. S. Mattingly
Registrar and Treasurer

endowment. In the hands of the State-Planters Bank and
Trust Company of Richmond will be placed all real es-
tate and real estate mortgage holdings of the university.
The bank will act as fiscal agent of Washington and Lee,
its trust departments servicing the loans and real estate,
and remitting the net income to the treasurer. ‘The bank
has also agreed to undertake a survey of all
holdings of this kind and will report its find-

recommendations for changes and improve-
ments.

As to the part of the endowment which 1s
in the form of securities, these will remain, as

of New York. This firm for many years han-

 

and since this bequest of nearly two million

sity have been turned over to the New York company.

Of special interest to fraternity members among the —
alumni will be the disposition of the loans which Washing- —
ton and Lee has made to several fraternity groups in the

past. These, according to Mr. Mattingly, will be kept in
charge of the treasurer.

All in all, the funds of your alma mater are in good —

and capable hands. What they need now is a very con-
siderable increase, for which all of us may fervently
hope.

 

Among those listed as passing the Maryland State ~
Bar Examinations given in June was CHaRLes Awpry —
Tompson, A.B. 736, second in rating of 76, and CaL-§

VERT THOMAS, B.S., 738.

 

M. F. Baucuer, LL.B..1925, of West Palm Beachy
Florida, representing the Palm Beach Fishing Club, ©
triumphed over a competition of 5,000 entries in the sixth 1
annual Silver Sailfish Derby. His eight-foot, six-inch fish ~
taken on light tackle won him the award for the longest

fish (among 898 taken) and the light-tackle prize.

| 20 |

ings to the Board of Trustees this fall with —

they have been for the past few years, in ~
charge of the United States Trust Company —

dled the investments of the Doremus estate —

dollars came to the university several years —
ago, the United States Trust has continued to
handle the estate for the college. This arrangement will be ~
continued, and other stocks and bonds held by the univer-—

‘

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Charlotte

Av AN enthusiastic dinner meeting in Charlotte, North
Carolina, on July 29, about twenty-five local alumni
listened to speeches by football coaches Tex Tilson and
Riley Smith, and elected two new officers.

John L. Crist, 1913, was elected to succeed Philip F.
Howerton as president. Mr. Howerton refused offers of
renomination and turned the meeting over to Thomas M.
Glasgow, 1912, who presided during the election in which
Mr. Crist was chosen without opposition.

The new secretary-treasurer will be A. Murat Willis,
1938.

The new president emphasized as his policy a strong
backing of the university's athletic program and work
for a Washington and Lee-Davidson football game each
year, preferably in Charlotte.

The chapter hopes for a meeting this fall which will
be attended by Cy Young and President Gaines.

Appalachian

At THE ANNUAL MEETING of the Appalachian As-
sociation of Washington and Lee University Alumni at
Hungry Mother State Park Friday evening, Governor
Homer Holt, of West Virginia, was the guest speaker.
He was introduced by L. P. Collins, of Marion, tormer
member of the house of delegates, a former classmate of
Governor Holt, who spoke of the university.

Other speakers were Coach Tex Tilson and his as-
sistant Riley Smith. Senator Fred Parks of Abingdon,
and [,. P. Collins also spoke briefly. At a business meet-
ing held in the park shelter the following officers were
elected: L,. P. Collins, president, and Charles S. Wassum,
both of Marion, secretary and treasurer.

The banquet was held at Hemlock Haven near the
park with 65 members and guests attending. The asso-
ciation includes Southwest Virginia from Roanoke to
Bristol.

Weddings

1926

RicHarp Hatiipay, (who later graduated from
Dartmouth), was married recently in Las Vegas, Nevada,
to Miss Mary Martin, the film star who won her way into
the movies by singing ““My Heart Belongs to Daddy.”
Halliday is at present a film studio story editor for Para-
mount in Hollywood.

1932

RicHARD BLAIR SKEEN, Phi Delta Theta, was mar-
ried on the eighth of last June to Miss Evelyn Burroughs
Delaney. The wedding took place in St. James Episcopal
Church in Alexandria, Louisiana.

CLaxton Epmonps ALLEN, JR., B.A., was married to

Miss Helen McCreery Barker of New York City on Oc-
tober 4.

1934

RucELEy Prerson DEVan, Jr., married Miss Jane
Mayer on September 14 in the First Presbyterian Church
of Charleston, West Virginia. DeVan, Phi Kappa Sigma
and Phi Beta Kappa, is in the insurance business in
Charleston, in which, after a brilliant record in the com-
Merce school, he should succeed unusually well.

1936

Epwarp ANncus PowELL, Phi Kappa Sigma, who
managed our football team a few years back was married
on the thirty-first of August to Miss Helen Elizabeth
Bryson. The ceremonies took place in the Winnetka
Congregational Church at Winnetka, Illinois.

JoskpH JoHN PeErTeE, Pi Kappa Phi, a few years ago
captain of basketball and baseball, and halfback on the
football team, married Miss Arline Veronica Strembel on
October 12 in St. Agnes Roman Catholic Church, Rock-
ville Center, Long Island. Mr. and Mrs. Pette will be at
home after November 10 at 14 Strathmere Lane, Rock-
ville Center.

1938

WavEé Hampton HATreEN, Jr., Sigma Nu, was mar-
ried in Gulfport, Mississippi, to Miss Gladys Jayn Legg.
The wedding took place on August 25.

Announcement has been received in the Alumni Office
of the marriage of WILLIAM FRANCIS SAUNDERS, B.S.
38, LL.B. 40, and Miss Ann Sutherland Price on Oc-
tober 5, at Montvale, New Jersey. Mr. and Mrs. Saunders
attended the Washington and Lee Homecoming on Oc-
tober 12.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1939
Ropert AtsrecuHt Nicuoison, Phi Kappa Sigma,
and late editor of The Ring-tum Phi, married Miss Jean
Louise Rankin in San Diego, California, on the sixteenth
of June. The couple will be at home with the Second
Battalion, Tenth Marines, in San Diego.

Wititram ArtHuR BEETON, a recent graduate of the
Naval Air School at Pensacola, has been designated a
naval aviator and has been commissioned an ensign in
the U. S. Navy. He has reported for duty with Patrol
Squadron 52 at Charleston, South Carolina. He is a
native of Lexington, Virginia.

Rate H. Smira and Miss Mary Elinor Tauber
were married on October 26 at the Bellefonte Country
Club in Ashland, Kentucky.

1940
GANAHL WALKER, JR., Sigma Nu, was married to
Miss Sarah Wood Cheney on July 15. The wedding took
place in the First Presbyterian Church at San Antonio,
‘Texas,

1941
Crawrorp Ex_irs HInDERMANN, ex-1941, married
Miss Nancy Powers in Christ Church Cathedral, New
Orleans, Louisiana, on the eighteenth of June.

 

New Arrivals

Tue ALUMNI Orrick had the pleasure of receiving
announcements of three recent additions to alumni fami-
lies:

Cart B. Knicut, 1926, and Mrs. Knight, announce
the arrival of Carol Hamilton Knight on June 17. The
Knights live in Big Stone Gap, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. V. A. Snow became the parents of Lois
Douglas Snow on July 20. Mr. Snow is a member of
the class of 1939, and the family lives at 325 S. Peterson
Street, Louisville, Kentucky.

Born to Mr. and Mrs. Grorck E. Burks, 1927, a
daughter, Elizabeth Hereford Burks, on February 7, 1940.

 

THe REVEREND Mr. R. ALLEN Brown, 1909, pastor
of the Havre de Grace, Maryland, Presbyterian Church,
is Moderator of the Baltimore Presbytery. He received
his degree here in law, but after a few years’ practice
went into the ministry.

 

Joun G. Hernpon, 1911, represented Washington and
Lee University at the inauguration of President Morley otf
Harvard College on October 19, 1940.

Lefty George Still Going Strong
(Continued from page 7)

markable success of the new pitcher, George, who was the
only bright spot of the year, apparently. He must have
been missed the following season.

Thomas Edward George was hailed all over the
country last summer for his really remarkable perform-
ance of winning an overtime game in an important minor
league at the age of 54, and the Alumni Magazine takes ~
pleasure in repeating the story of a former student who
can keep on performing with a rubber arm when many ;
of the arms and legs in modern organized baseball seem
to be made of glass. We hope he keeps on (to quote the
sane article) “until his arm drops off—which will be
never!” |

 

THE appointment 9f Caverr Roser, LL.B. 1933, asa
vice-president of the Arizona Edison Company, Inc., was
announced recently. Mr. Robert, a brother-in-law of
President Gaines, practiced law with the firm of Beek-
man, Bogue, Stephens and Black in New York City from
1933 to 1936, and for a year was connected with the dis-
trict attorney’s office in New York, during the famous ©
rackets investigation. Early in 1937 he went to Arizona
and was associated for a time with the law firm of Ellin- {
wood and Ross in Phoenix. He began his connection with ©
Arizona Edison in September, 1937, as manager of their —
new business department. .

 

Opening of the 192nd Session
(Continued from page 6)

Commerce. He was for three years Assistant in Business |
Law at the University of North Carolina. |
As instructor in Modern Civilization, Horace 9. %
Merrill, A.B. of the University of Wisconsin, will under-
take other courses formerly taught by Mr. Smith.
In Biology, taking the place of Mr. Hill, will be
Lincoln C. Pettit, with the rank of instructor. .
Mr. Carter’s place as instructor in Journalism and di-
rector of university publicity will be taken by Latham B. |
Weber, 1939, while Lea Booth, 1939, will handle the ath-
letic publicity in particular. :
As director of religious activities in place of Mr. Phil- 1
pott will be James Denny Wilcher, A.B. and B.D. of q
Yale.
Mr. Light’s position in the Law School will be handled —
by Chas. V. Laughlin.
John Robert Taylor, M.S. has returned from a leave
of absence to his duties in the department of Chemistry. ©

| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

———-
1869
E. W. WittiAMs has a new

address at 1313 Laurel Street,
Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He signs
his letter, “Your 90 year old
General Lee boy.” The Alumni

 

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally imaccu-
rate. If so, we hereby apologize.

cation, the Board of Health, and
has, for the past ten years, been
President of the Winyah Indigo
Society founded nearly two hun-
dred years ago by the original
indigo planters of South Caro-

 

lina. The Society has the orig-

 

Office is more than proud to
have him on our rolls. Captain
Fd has always been an enthusiastic and helpful alumnus,
and writes, in his own hand, an interesting letter remin-
‘scent of his life here as a student under General Lee.

1874

BisHop JAMES R. WINCHESTER is now retired and
lives with his daughter at 1538 Estes Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois. His continued interest in everything pertaining
to Washington and Lee is deeply appreciated by the
Alumni Office.

1886

foun V. McCay, D.D., fas retired atter 4/7: years
spent in four Presbyteries in Texas and Oklahoma. Mr.
McCall retired at the age of 76 to spend his remaining
years in his boyhood home of Weatherford, Texas.

Dr. SAMUEL S$. GUERRANT practiced his profession
in Roanoke, Virginia, for ten years, after which he re-
tired to the country and became interested in horticulture.
He has continued in this pursuit for thirty years. He has
some 200 acres in the Algoma Orchards where he raises
fine Virginia apples. His address is Callaway, Virginia.
He has six sons and four daughters.

W. J. Humpnureys is retired but still
“takes an active interest in several scien-

oe y

tific societies, keeps up with the progress of mt

meteorology and in wireless range, at least,
of the rational and intelligible portions of
His address is The Cosmos Club,
Washington. D. C.

physics.”’

Epwin W. Kaminski lives in George-

town, South Carolina. He has been actively “a
“ngaged in business in Georgetown and has
alw ays been active in community work. He

wl re
has been chairman of the Board of Edu-

uly .

 

A
ae Hi

    
 

inal charter from the Court of
St. James during the reign of King George.

1888

Dr. . P. Tompxins has been coroner of Rockbridge
County since 1926,
Preservation of Virginia Antiquities; Vestryman in the
R. Kk. Lee Episcopal Church of Lexington. He has recent-
ly published a most interesting book, ‘Natural Bridge and

is chairman of the Association for

Its Historical Surroundings.”

Hon. GREENLEE D. LETCHER is still practicing law in
Lexington, Virginia. He is active in everything pertain-
ing to the welfare of the Virginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee, both of which institutions claim
him as an alumnus.

1889

J. T. DRAKE is a member of the law firm of E. S.
& J. T. Drake, Port Gibson, Mississippi. His son, J. T.,
Jr., practices with his father.

James T. McCaa, Brady, Texas, says he would enjoy
receiving a card from anyone of the class of 1888 or
1889, especially one who was on the base-
ball team.

1890

A. K. Bowles is with the Consolidated
Coal Company, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York.

  
 

  

)

   
 
  

A |

1892

Joun W. Woops is a member of the law
firm of Price, Smith & Spilman, Kanawha
Banking & Trust Company Building, Char-
leston, West Virginia.

we {fe

Matcoim G. Bruce lives in South Bos-
ton, Virginia.

ls
een

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

13895

Dr. Harry W. Myrrs, writing in May, from 24 Yam-
amoto Dori, 2, Chome, Kobe, Japan, says he was just
back in Japan after a few months keeping the rails hot
between New York and San Francisco. He has recently
been elected president of the Central Theological Semi-

nary in Kobe.

Dr. AnprEw H. Woops is Director of the Psycho-
pathic Hospital, The State University of Iowa, lowa City,
Towa.

1894

E. P. Corks is with the General Electric Company,
200 S. Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina.

1896

Marron W. Rrry is a Counsellor at Law, 4 East 43rd
Street, New York.

Dr. H. Grupert Reyno tps is Assistant Chief Ocu-
list for the Hlinois Central Railroad, with offices in Citi-
zens Savings Bank Building, Paducah, Kentucky.

1897

T. H. Wess is Assistant State Highway Engineer,
Texas Highway Department, Austin, Texas.

1898

Tue HonoraBLE Henry W. ANDERSON is a member
of the law firm of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay &
Moore, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia.

J. Sam SLicer is practicing law in the Chamber of
Commerce Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

Haroik B. Ripy lives at 1425 Rhode Island Avenue,
Washington, D. C.

Ernest W. Ripy is a member of the firm of Ripy
Brothers, Distillers, Lawrenceburg, Kentucky. He and
some friends own a stone quarry in Lee County, Virginia,
where they crush, quarry and sell crushed stone and do
contract road building.

Wittiam A. Apair is County Treasurer for Rock-
bridge County, Virginia.

1899

C. P. Snyper, Admiral U. S$. Navy, Commander
Battle Force, U. S. Fleet, wrote his class Agent in May
from the U. S. S. New Mexico Flagship, Pearl Harbor,
T. H. After serving as President of the Naval War Col-

lege at Newport, Rhode, Island, for two and a half years,
he was made Vice Admiral, and assumed command of the
Battleships of the United States Fleet. Last January he
was made a full Admiral and assumed command of the
entire Battle Force of the United States Fleet, composed
of battleships, cruisers, destroyers, air craft and mine ves-
sels. He is second in command of the U. S. Fleet, and
one of the four full Admirals which the Navy has. :

BRADEN VANDEVENTER is a member of the law firm
of Vandeventer and Black, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia. He is married and has one son and one
daughter.

1900

A. G. Davis has been a farmer, stockman, and in the
timber business for the past 40 years. He says: “I have
tried to be useful, have many friends and am happy. If
you see any of the boys tell them Jeff Davis says ‘Howdy’
and has a warm spot in his heart for Washington and
Lee and all alumnt.”

Dr. S. B. McPueerers is Director of Public Health
for Goldsboro and Wayne County, Goldsboro, North
Carolina. |

1901

Stewart L,. Cress is practicing law in Los Angeles,
California, at 128 South La Brea Avenue.

Joun M. Corserr is practicing law in Bay City, |
‘exes:

1903

Tomas BALL is practicing law in Los Angeles, Cali- 7
fornia, with offices in the Title Insurance Building.

Wituiam J. TurRNER’is Superintendent of the Braden ~
Copper Company Mines at Rancagua, Chile. His two ~
sons are in school in the United States, and he gets back |
to this country every now and then.

JosepH D. CoLvins is practicing medicine in Ports-
mouth, Virginia, with offices in the Medical Arts Building. {

}..C.: MePueeters lives at’ 125 W.. Vance Street,
Charlotte, North Carolina.

1904

Tre RevEREND LYLE M. Morrerr is Minister of the —
Presbyterian Church, McDowell, Virginia. |

W. O. Witson is President of the Davenport Insur-
ance Company, 1113-15 East Main Street, Richmond,
Virginia.

| 24 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1907

CG. W. KELLER is Secretary-Treasurer of the Hunt-
ington-Oklahoma Oil Company, oil and gas operators
and producers, Huntington, West Virginia. His son is in
his second year at Washington and Lee.

A. R. LARRICK is a Presbyterian Minister in Plant
City, Florida. His son graduated from Washington and
Lee with high honors last year.

1908

Dr. GrovER A. BATTEN sent his best wishes for a
banner year for the class of 1908 on the
occasion of the 100th anniversary of the
Alumni Association’s birth, and reported
that his last visit to Lexington was in 1938 Re
upon the occasion of his son’s graduation. lees
He is associated with Douglas B. Bell, z 78s
M. D., at 405 Dillingham J Fanaportalon aN
Building, Honolulu, Hawaii.

 

  
 

WF ae

es \) \ y 4
FAN

MES

RoscoE STEPHENSON is practicing law
in Covington, Virginia. His son, Roscoe,
Jr., is in his second year at Washington
and Lee.

ROSEWELL PAGE BLEDSOE is an Agron- = =

omust at the Georgia Experiment Station, Department of
Agronomy Ixperiment, Experiment, Georgia, and lives
in Griffin, Georgia, nearby.

Grorce IY. Cary is practicing law in Gloucester,
Virginia.

Donatp P. Boyer is an educator in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, and has a boy in college. He thinks that the class
agent system is the best possible thing to keep up interest
in the university that could have been done. He wants to
know when the next 1908 reunion will be.

Counsellor at Law RussEtt CaTHeEr (possibly Tom
fo you) of Winchester, Virginia, was too busy to write.
We appreciate the check but regretted having no further
word from him.

Harry Gassman has been engaged in educational
Work in Cincinnati for many years. His daughter, Miss

Lula Grace Gassman, graduated from high school this
year.

Grover C. Gaprret is, as the Alumni Notes in a
Previous issue stated, a pastor in the Evangelical Church
at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. He is District Superin-
tendent of his Conference and has 37 pastors under his
“"Pervision and has been notably successful in his chosen

     
       

 

      
 

profession and in this church since he became a minister
in 1909, doing a great work in furthering the interests of
his denomination and the ministry. He has had several
children in college.

Peyton Hopson is still ‘lawing’ in Kentucky and
keeps plenty busy, but not too busy to forget his old
friends and classmates, or the welfare of the University.
His son is associated with him in the practice of law at
Pikeville.

JULIAN STUART GRAVELY lives in Baltimore. He has
a grown son and daughter and retains his sense of humor
and his affection for Washington and Lee.

THE REVEREND Mr. Ropert RUSSELL
Gray is pastor of the Union and Salem

\

, 2 Presbyterian Churches at Union, West
eh ee

4, Virginia.
i Bos Gtass is winding up about a quar-

ter century in the editorial rooms of ‘The
Lynchburg, Virginia, News and has been

  

1909

DANIEL K. SADLER is a Supreme Court
Justice of New Mexico, having been elect-
ed for his first term in this office in 1930 and re-elected in
1938. He is married and has a son, Daniel K., Je, who
graduated from the Santa Fe High School last spring.

W. I. Moretanp, M. D., is practicing his profession
in Powhatan, Louisiana. He has five children, all through
college, except the youngest, James. He owns and oper-
ates a Red River farm.

BERNIE Borcuarpt is an attorney-at-law, 410%
Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida.

O. R. Price has been located in Baltimore for the
last twenty-one years as Assistant Valuation Engineer of
the Western Maryland Railway.

A. A. Houser is still practicing medicine in Rich-
mond, Virginia. He gives no news of himself.

THE REVEREND Mr. Harotp H. Leacu has a pas-
torate in two small country church in Shenandoah Junc-
tion, Jefferson County, West Virginia. He has a son, now
a Junior in Hampden-Sydney.

BeIRNIE STEDMAN has written various law books
published by The Michie Company, Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia. His latest book, Patents, was published recently
and is “the only book on patents which is based exclu-

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

sively on the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
United States.”

1910

Rayrorp W. ALLey is still practicing law at 30
Broad Street, New York City.

E.. Tf. - Burr is in the life insurance business in
Raleigh, North Carolina.

Evererre LEMON is a member of the firm of Windel-
Lemon, Inc., real estate, rentals, property management,
26 Kirk Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

JAmEs B. BAKER lives in Beverly, West Virginia.

1911

Brian BELL is Chief of Bureau of the Associated
Press, 330 Star Building, Washington, D. C.

J. GRANVILLE JoHNSTON has been a Certified Engi-
neer and Surveyor for the past fifteen years and also
manages his farm at Murat, Virginia. His son, John,
graduated from Washington and Lee last Finals.

Frep P. GuTHRIE since 1923 has been looking after
the telegraph business of the Radio Corporation of
America in Washington, D. C. His son graduated from
Washington and Lee last June, cum laude, Phi Beta
Kappa. He has another son, four years old.

S. R. Gammon is Head of the Department of His-
tory at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of
Texas, College Station, Texas.

SAMUEL Gorbon Norv is in business in the Elec-
tric Building, San Diego, California.

Harry J. LEMLEy has recently moved his main office
as United States District Judge for the Eastern and
Western Districts of Arkansas from Little Rock to Tex-
arkana, Arkansas.

J. Tom Warson was nominated by the Democratic
Party in the Tampa, Florida, May primaries to the office
of Attorney General of the State of Florida. This has
heretofore been equivalent to election in that State.

Rosert A. RUSSELL is practicing law in Rustburg,
Virginia.
1912
J. D. KELLER, JR., is now, and has been for some time

past, Resident Engineer for Virginia Department of
Highways, located at Abingdon, Virginia.

J. Franx Key is Secretary of the Columbian Paper
Company, Buena Vista, Virginia.

Leroy Harvarp Scott is a doctor in Shreveport, 7
Louisiana. He is married and has a son eighteen years ~
old.

Rosert R. BLAKE is traveling in North Carolina for ~
Oscar Mayer & Company of Madison, Wisconsin—Meat .
Products. His headquarters are in Winston-Salem, North —
Carolina, address Y.M.C.A. |

WaLrerR L. Horpxins is a member of the House of
Delegates for the State of Virginia. |

Harry SAVILLE is Principal of the Axton Higg@
School, Axton, Virginia, where he has been for the past —
fourteen years.

JamES SOMERVILLE is connected with the American —
Imbassy, 1 Grosvenor Square, London, W. I.

W. Grauam Woon is Pastor of the Centerville Pres-_
byterian Church, Greenville, West Virginia. :

1914

KENNETH WuuTtLE has been practicing law im
Martinsville, Virginia. His family consists of Mrs.
Whittle, a daughter and two sons; and he hopes to send
both of the boys to Washington and Lee before long.

C. H. Morrtssert, is State ‘Tax Commissioner, De-
partment of Taxation, Richmond, Virginia. |
CLARENCE SAGER, gives no news of himself, but from
his letter-head, he is still practicing law at 30 East 42nd ~
Street, New York. j
Lee R. GraBiLt, JR., is with the Legal Department,
E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, 7
Delaware.

J. C. Wuerzet lives at 1311 Murdoch Street, Pitts .
burgh, Pennsylvania.

Bos Hogson is a member of the law firm of Wood-~
ward, Dawson and Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Build-_
ing. His son, Bob, received his A.B. from Washington ~
and Lee last Finals and is now in the Law School. |

A. W. McCain, one of the regulars of '14, is still]
with the Chase National Bank of New York in the ca-—
pacity of Vice-President. |

t915
Frep C. Hunvrer is engaged in the general practice |
of law at Bedford, Virginia. 1

JosepH Wittram Hopcks is engaged in general prac-
tice in the firm of Hodges and Wrinkle at 20914 N.
Bullard Street, Silver City, New Mexico, and was Dis-—
trict Attorney for Grant County, New Mexico.

| 26 |

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

St

WitttAM A. KELEHER is engaged in general practice
Beiaw at 123 S. 15th Street, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
He served as City Attorney for Albuquerque from 1916
to 1922 and was counsel for number of oil companies and

insurance companies, as well as banking institutions.

Lorinc C. Kacxiry is the Trial Judge for Clarke
County at Berryville, Virginia and is also very active in
the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church. He
has been engaged in general practice at Berryville since

his graduation.

W. Guy LAUGHTON is now located at 411 Jefferson
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina. He
practiced law for a short while and then
entered the insurance business and since
1927 has been Branch Manager of the Sun
Life Insurance Company of Canada cov-

AAO. TN
’ ee

. ; 3 oe
ering the two Carolinas. He is married sheet co
: ne ) x

and has three daughters.

1916

Reusen A. L&éwis is Executive Vice

President of the Metropolitan Trust Com- | |

pany, 11 South LaSalle Street, Chicago. Prior to joining
the Metropolitan Trust Company he served as second
vice president of the Continental Bank in the commercial
department. He says:

“One bank out of every five in the country carries
deposits with the Continental so this enabled me to keep
in touch with many of the Washington and Lee Alumni
who are officers of banks in various parts of the United
States. This group included Howard McCain, Vice Pres-
ident of the First National Bank of New York, James D.
Flowers, Vice President of the Alabama National Bank,
Montgomery, Alabama, Norfleet Turner and Allen Jack-
son, Executive Vice President of the First National Bank
of Memphis, James H. Penick, Executive Vice President
of W. B. Worthen Company, Bankers, of Little Rock,
Arkansas, W. M. Marshall, Vice President of Spokane
and Eastern Division of the Seattle-First National Bank
of Spokane, P. E. Chappell ,Cashier of the Planters
Bank and Trust Company of Hopkinsville, Kentucky,
Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., Trust Officer and Counsel,
Peoples National Bank of Lexington, Thomas W. Gil-
liam, Cashier of the Lynchburg National Bank and Trust
Company, Lynchburg, Virginia, Homer Powell, Cashier,
Murfreesboro Bank and Trust Company, Murfreesboro,
| «nnessee, Homer A. Jones, Vice President and Cashier
Of the Washington ‘Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol,
Seinia, as well as the notables among the bankers in
Lexington, John L. Campbell, W. M. McElwee and

   
  

others. While this list is fairly long, it is by no means a
complete roster of the Washington and Lee men who
are officers of banks. I dare say the complete list would
be rather impressive.”

1917

GEorGE N. DANIELSON’s address is 1021 New Post
Office Building, St. Paul, Minnesota.

CHARLIE STRIBLING is Superintendent of the Mis-
sour! Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri.

Bos McDoucLe was a delegate to the National Re-
publican Convention in June. He is prac-
ticing law in Parkersburg, West Virginia,
with offices in the Citizens National Bank
Building. :

Pau D. Barns is Judge of the Cir-
cuit Court, Miami, Florida. His son is a
freshman at the University this year.

1918

.. V. Bowyer is with the Roanoke
Gas Light Company, 121-123 Church Avenue, S.W.,
Roanoke, Virginia. He is Commercial Manager for the
above company. He has a ten year old son who, he says,
has aspirations of rubbing his head against the historic
walls of Washington and Lee University when he is
ready for college.

B. F. Trxvar is in partnership with his brother, own-
ing the W. T. Tillar & Co., Hardware Store in Emporia,
Virginia. He is married and has two children, a boy 16
and a girl 12. He has been a member of the City Coun-
cil for five years. He is also president of the Building
and Loan Association of Emporia, director in the Citi-
zens National Bank, and an Elder in the Presbyterian
Church. He recently built a new house in Emporia.

SAM Morevon lives at 721 South Church Street,
Brookhaven, Mississippi.

JAMEs C. AMBLER is a partner in Ginn & Company,
Educational Publishers, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York.
In 1933 he was married to Miss Elsie Carter of Rich-
mond, Virginia, and they have two children, a daughter
Jaquelin, born January 17, 1935, and a son born on April
10, 1939,

1919

Bop Icnacio has been in the Army Air Corps con-
tinuously since leaving school in the Spring of °17. His
services have carried him to many parts of the states and

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

even to some far corners of the world. His address in
May was Borinquen Field, Puerto Rico, and his title
Major, Air Corps. His son is now a student at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Sam Baker is District Manager of the Sharon Steel
Corporation, Sharon, Pennsylvania. He says: “I am not
in jail, and am a little thinner, a little grayer and my golf
score hasn't improved much.”

Joun H. Youne gives his address as 4432 Windom
Place, N,W.. Washington, D. C.

Dr. SAMUEL H. ANDERSON, JR.,
Grace Street, Richmond, Virginia.

ioe at 2aZ0. VV:

1920

Haro_p Rogpertson is in the banking business in
Roanoke, Virginia. He is married and has two boys

10 and 12. He says that his boys spent six weeks in camp

in Rockbridge County with Tex Tilson. They are thor-
oughly sold on Washington and Lee.

Ran Case et is still in the Coal Business in Coving-
ton, Virginia.

C. H. McCain is still with the William Hengerer
Company, Buffalo, New York, as Vice President and
General Superintendent, where he has been for the past
eight years.

L. Preston (‘Pat’) Cotttns is still practicing law

in Marion, Virginia, and “going places’ politically.

Ep G. BarLty lives at 5504 Bewdley Road, Rich-

mond, Virginia.

Grorce S. MUELLER lives at 51 Quaker Ridge Road,
Manhasset, Long Island, New York.

1921

Ramon D. Garcin, who has been practicing medi-
cine in Brooklyn, has recently returned to his home
town, Richmond, Virginia, where he is in practice with

his father at 2618 East Broad Street.

FRANK PottocKx has moved to Richmond, Virginia.
His business address is 503 American Building.

Eppre Lone is connected with the Huntington Pub-
lishing Company, Huntington, West Virginia.

WittiaAm A. GIBBONS, JR., is Assistant Secretary-
Treasurer of the Liberty Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia.

‘ToRRENCE WoLForp is with the Veterans Adminis-
tration, Washington, D. C. His residence address is 6311
Georgia Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

[ 28 |

    
   
   
   
   
    
   

Cart GILL is living at 420 Memorial Drive, Cama
bridge, Massachusetts. He is still working for the De~
partment of Labor.

1922

F. J. DAUGHERTY is a member of the firm of Daugh-
erty-Davis Co., Inc., North Emporia, Virginia. He is:
married and has one child. {

Guy CAMPBELL’s address is Motor Supply Company,
Monroe, Louisiana. i

GARLAND Gray is with the Gray Lumber Company,
Waverly, Virginia. J
JameEs A. CranForp is Vice-President of the Atlantic
National Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida.

CHartEes H. Mitier has recently resigned his po-
sition as District Manager of the Alabama Power Com-
pany and is now connected with the Talladega Ice and)
Cold Storage Company, in which he holds a substantial
interest.

1923

O. Forrest McGitt is. Manager of the Floridg
Branch, Mortgage Loan Department of the Prudential
Insurance Company of America, at Lakeland, F lorida,

IrvINE Dunn has been with the C. & O. Railway
Company continuously since leaving school. He is no
located at St. Albans, West Virginia, and has charge of
the coal field district serving mines in Southern West
Virginia. He married a Rockbridge County girl, and they
have a daughter three years old.

Frep Pass is Field Supervisor for the New Amsiee
dam Casualty Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with ot-
fices in the First Wisconsin National Bank Building.

1924

CuHartes A. Turwiter has been practicing law if
Welch, West Virginia, since leaving Washington and
Lee. He is a member of the firm of Crockett & Tutwiier
His letter tells that he is married and has no_ political
aspirations.

Harry Lystk SHUEY is vice president of the Mom
gantown Furniture Company, Morgantown, North Caro=
lina. |

W.C. “Bitt” McKnicnr has wandered up into Ne !
York to Allegheny State Park, Red House, New York.

He 1s married and reports an enjoyable visit to Lexing=
ton with his wife last April. |

GrorcEe Mercxe, Jr., has been with The Jefferson
Wood Working Company of Louisville, Kentucky, evel

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

tt

“ace leaving school. He is the father of three children,
sinc é

: oldest graduating from high school this year.

the

PauL Mixon is a planter and farm implement dealer
- Mariana, Arkansas. He is married and has two chil-
in Marie

dren, a boy and baby girl.

CHARLIE PHILLIPS didn't say a thing about himself.
However, he is in the real estate business with offices in
: ’
the Mutual Building in Richmond, Virginia.

Francis PLOWMAN is now an officer in the Scott
Paper Company of Ridley Park, Pennsylvania. He was
back at school last fall and says he was glad to see all of

  

PeRRY DyER Hunver is in the insurance business,
operating an agency which he inherited from his father.
He married Winsome Battershill, and they have two
children, a son and daughter.

CLARENCE I. Brock, Jr., is in the candy business in
Chattanooga, Tennessee. His address is 1712 Ashton
Avenue.

1926

Dr. Louts E. Wicr took his M.D. at Richmond
Medical College in 1930. He then had four years of hos-
pital work in Baltimore. He is now practicing internal

the improvements. He has just moved Gg medicine. His address is 920 St. Paul
into a new country home near Walling- if j Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

aa P lvania ie AP aati Uy >

ford, Pennsylv ; WRK Pane - . ee

a : Bre “ie Po Re JAMES W. Spiers and his wife are

 
 

TurNER Merritr is still with the
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company in their general offices in At-
lanta. He is unmarried but makes up for
that by his interest in Scout work, serv-
ing as District Scout Commissioner.

Wititiam C. Roperts attended Tu-
lane University Law School after leav-
ing Washington and Lee, and is now a
successful lawyer in Alexandria, Louisiana. He writes
that he is still a bachelor.

Dave PoInTER, JR., is a banker and planter in Como,
Mississippi. He has a wife and three children, one girl
and two boys.

FRANK W. REEVEs is president of the Reeves Motor
Company of Helena, Arkansas. He is married but has no
children.

1925
ELMorE Durour lives at. Slidell, Louisiana. He has
been with the Interstate Trust and Banking Company
of New Orleans for seven years. He is married and has a
boy ten years old. He is president of the New Orleans
Alumni Association.

Catvin ‘I’. Burron is an Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
Specialist in Roanoke, Virginia. He is married and has a
daughter one year old.

Jor BirniE is Executive Vice President of The
Morris Plan Bank, Atlanta, Georgia.

Wittiam L,. WooLFo.k is an Eye, Ear, Nose and
lhroat specialist in Owensboro, Kentucky.

SAUNDERS (GUERRANT is in the insurance business in
) : . . Te . . °
\oanoke, Virginia. His address is Liberty Trust Build-

ing. He is married and has a son, born August 16, 1936.

el

   
  

owners and operators of Madock Farm,

  

Tarboro, North Carolina. They have
three children, a son 12, a daughter 8,
and another son 4.

KENNETH A. Goopsk is in the railroad

business in Cleveland, Ohio. His address
ts Po ©) Box 6119.

Ep Rigtzk is president of the Rietze

Distributing Company in Louisville, Kentucky. They dis-

tribute Hotpoint electric appliances in 44 counties in Ken-
tucky and southern Indiana.

Joun W. Hocker, Jr., is engaged in the private
practice of medicine in Chattanooga, Tennessee, with
Pediatrics as a specialty. He is married and has one
child, a girl two and a half years old.

FE. Morris ABERNATHY is practicing law in Lawrence-
ville, Virginia. He was married about eight years ago
and has two children, Patsy 6, and Marcia, 2.

Dan MacCorxrr is with Phelps-Dodge Copper
Products Corporation where he has been in the Sales

Department for several years. His address is 40 Wall
street, New York.

RussELL L. Gorpvon is with the Fireman’s Fund In-
surance Company in Chicago. He travels a lot, and his
home is at 807 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

1927

Dr. ALEX S. Morrert, Missionary to China, is now
in this country at 2506 Vanderbilt Place, Nashville, ‘I'en-
nessee.

| 29 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1928

Witiiam J. Luria is with the family firm, Luria
Brothers & Co., Iron and Steel, Philadelphia, Pa.

OLDHAM CLARKE is a member of the law firm of
Allen & Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Building, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

1929
W. B. Lort gives his address as 544 St. Peter Street,
New Orleans, Louisiana.

A. L. McCarbE Lt, Jr., is a National Bank Examiner,
407 Federal Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Pryton Busu gives his address as P. O. Box 249,
Mobile, Alabama.

Paun. 5. Mertins, [re is an Hye, Ear, Nose-and
Throat Specialist, Montgomery, Alabama. His address 1s
32 Clayton Street.

Grorck M. Wricut is with the Republic Cotton
Mills, Great Falls, South Carolina.

R. M. (‘Mac’) Davis has been in the business of
underwriting ‘Texas Municipal Bond issues for the en-
tire period since he graduated, and is Treasurer of James
Stayart & Davis, First National Bank Building, Dallas,
Texas. He has been married six years and has no chil-
dren. His principal hobbies are golf and airplanes, and
he travels over the state in his own ship when the
weather permits.

59350

Dick AMMERMAN, writing from Paris last May,
says that he is scarcely in a position to define what his
present status is. “My plans have been pretty well splin-
tered by the course of events in Hurope. But for the pres-
ent I am remaining on here and hope to survive the
present chaos.” He is practicing law at 5, Avenue de
Opera, Paris, France.

Merce Suter is with the General Electric Supply
Corporation, in charge of the Installation Department, in
Washington. He has been married for three years and
lives in Arlington, Virginia.

Bos Crapp resigned his office as a member of the
House of Delegates in the Maryland Legislature, on
June 1, 1939, in order to assume the position of Assistant
Attorney General of Maryland. Although his new posi-
tion requires his being in Baltimore most of the time, he
still maintains his law office in Frederick, Maryland.

PALMER Brown is President of the L. P. Brown
Company, Inc., manufacturers of bagging and ties, and
is still living in Memphis.

1931

ARNOLD VICKERS is serving as Mayor of the city of]
Montgomery, West Virginia, for his third term, and was
recently nominated to the state senate from his senatorial
district. |

Bitt TALLyN is practicing law with the firm of Cox’
& Walburg, Military Park Building, Newark, News
Jersey. 1
Hersert O. Winston lives at 66 Tulip Avenue,
Floral Park, New York.

Duncan McConneELt is teaching geology in the.
University of Texas at Austin. This year he served as.
president of the Texas Chapter of the Society of Sigma
Xi (society for the promotion of scientific research ) and
in December was elected Fellow in the Geological Society
of America.

BoE. PARKER fr. is a partner in the Parker Peanut:
Company, Suffolk, Virginia. {

Dr. JoHn DEVINE, JR., is located in Lynchburg, Vir=
ginia, in the practice of surgery. | _

1932 |

KrrrreDGE Vinson, who had been assigned to War |
saw as Vice Consul in the spring, and arrived in Europe
to find Poland occupied, has been in Berlin since that
time. He expects to be called back to Washington this fall
for three months of technical training in the State De
partment, and doesn’t know where he'll be sent then.

Rosert L. McBripe is practicing law in Hillsboro,
Ohio, with offices in the Hillsboro Bank Building.

CHARLES DAvIDSON is practicing law in Lexington;
Virginia.

Birt Epwarps is with the D’Arcy Advertising Com-
pany, St. Louis, Missouri.

1933 |
SHELBY W. BLATTERMAN is farming at Mays Lick

Kentucky, raising grain crops, tobacco, sheep, cattle and

hogs. : ;

Bos Smrru has been School Physician in the George
School, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, for a year, but ex-
pected to enter practice in June, 1940. He gives his per-
manent address as 98 Bethlehem Pike, Ambler, Penn-
sylvania, after that date. |

G. W. Musser is practicing law in Indiana, Pent
sylvania, with offices in the Savings and ‘Trust Building:

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

Henry ARNOLD is the Publisher of The Cullman
F shune Cullman, Alabama. He is married and has two
Priren Henry III, who is five, and Ann, three.
. 3

DonaLp K. CRAWFORD 1s practicing law in Elkins,
West Virginia.

J. B. WHARTON has recently been accepted by the
American College of Surgeons. He is practicing Medi-
rie ‘1 ElDorado, Arkansas, with offices in the Exchange
Building. He is still a bachelor.

Britt Brooks is engaged in Sales Promotion and Ad-
vertising work for the Chevrolet Dealers ot
the Memphis zone. His residence address is

 
  
  
  

  

 

 

 

NR ,
7%

Lufkin, Texas. After leaving Washington and Lee he
attended the University of Texas where he secured his
B.A. degree and LL.B in 1937. He married Mattie Belle
Cook. His home address is 1003 West Grove Avenue,
Lufkin, Texas.

1936

Fpwarbd ‘TuRVILLE has been connected with the
American Security and Trust Company for the past
three and a half years in Washington, D. C. He has also
studied law in the George Washington Law School and
expects to receive his law degree this summer. His ad-
dress is American Security and Trust Com-
pany, Washington, D. C.

 
   
    

 

 

 

 
   
 

 

ee ;

965 Vista Place, Memphis, Tennes- Ll ZN

en eo | (any ae > Ze GILES SECHLER Is a sales representative
“pA —f/ Ls ug Ls yy i) \ IO : : :

a ig WN ms = in steel building products for the ‘Truscon

: i es . a \ + W’ Sy 3 \ XS Hj, : é :

IrvinG BricKEN is in the real estate ,7 Sey Steel Company, a Republic Steel Subsidi-

 

 

business, 565 Fifth Avenue, New York.

  
  

 

Dr. Dick CALDWELL has just concluded
a year as resident physician in the Shady-
side Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He

  

aS

plans to take further work next winter in his chosen pro-
fession.
1934

LAYNE [orp has been transferred from Martinsburg,
West Virginia, to a position in Clarksburg, West Vir-
ginia, as District Manager of the West Virginia State
Kmployment Service in the Clarksburg Trust Building.
He is living with his parents at Grafton, West Virginia,
and wishes his address kept there, P. O. Box 534.

RucE DEVAN is President and Treasurer of DeVan
& Company, Insurance, Charleston, West Virginia. (See
Weddings. )

Bos Rurs is living at 3014 Woodland Drive, Wash-
ington, D. C.
1935
James D. Fintery, II, is practicing law in the Citizens
Bank Building, Norfolk, Virginia.
RupotpH BUMGARDNER, JR., is practicing law in
Staunton, Virginia.

Birt Scuuts is doing work in the political science
department at Johns Hopkins. He has an assistantship.
His address is Box 999, Johns-Hopkins University, Bal-
tmore, Maryland.

. GILBERT McKown is practicing law in Martinsburg,
Vest \ Irginia, with offices in the Kilmer Buliding.

NED SHANDs, Jr., is City Attorney for the town of

 
 

Y eee eae I WW
Y iii Trini eT \ Fr

es

 

jue Tees

          

(Mae AMR ary, in Richmond, Virginia. He was married
to Isabel Reed in July, 1938.

 

    
 

 

——— $$$

 

 

 

    
 

OmeEr L&E Hirst is in the real estate
S business with his father in Fairfax County,

 

Virginia. He is married and has a little girl a year old. His
address is Route 3, Alexandria, Virginia.

Mitton Hownic has recently had a serious illness
which kept him in a hospital for seven months. How-
ever, he is now well on the road to recovery.

T. H. Arpuin has been appointed research fellow
under Dr. Ranson at the Neurological Institute of North-
western University. This is a highly valued position and
is sought by the best in the field. It is, therefore, a distinct
recognition of capacity and achievement.

H. E. SLoAN was awarded the degree of M.D. at the
ohns Hopkins School last year, at the head of his class.
I y

1937

Harry MoreLtanp was married to Miss Mary Belle
Riley of Staunton, Virginia, on December 16, 1939, He
is Resident Adujuster for the Maryland Casualty Com-
pany in Bristol, Virginia.

AMOS BOLEN is practicing law with the firm of Fitz-
patrick, Brown & Davis, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

TEx LEHR is in the mortgage loan business. His ad-
dress is 119 Paseo Encinal, San Antonio, Texas.

SouTHER TompxKins has been studying medicine
since leaving Washington and Lee, having completed his

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

second year at Washington University Medical School in
St. Louts.

1938

Joun Macey is practicing law with offices in the Se-
curity Trust Building, Lexington, Kentucky. He was
elected Secretary of the Central Kentucky Chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni recently.

Ip HiserMAN is practicing law in Charleston, West
Virginia, with offices in the Charleston National Bank
Building.

Rosert Wut is working on the staff of the Mexico
(Missouri) Ledger-Dis patch.

Howe tt Roperts is working for the California and
Hawaiian Sugar Company in New York City.

SAxBy TAvEL is a claims adjuster for the Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company in New York City.

SoutHcaTE Hoyt, who received an M.S. in Orni-
thology at Cornell last February, was a Field Assistant
for the National Museum in South Carolina until August.
He has gone back to Cornell to work for a Ph.D., ex-
panding his master’s thesis on the pileated woodpecker.
He attended the recent meeting of the American Orni-
tholigical Union in Boston and read a paper on his bird.

£959

BitLy Younc is in the law offices of Judge Edward
C. O’Rear, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Av Foster had just completed six months’ clerkship
required by the State of Pennsylvania before being ad-
mitted to the bar. He expected to open an office in State
College, Pennsylvania.

BrenvT HarniscH has been working in the advertis-
ing department of the Pioneer Flour Mills since leaving
Washington and Lee. His address is 933 EF. Guenther
Street, San Antonio, Texas.

Dick HoLpEn is doing graduate work in chemistry at
Harvard. His home address is 837 Edgewood Drive,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Jack Swan has his own business, the manufacture
and distribution of dog accessories. The name of his or-
ganization is K-9 Tag Company, and his address is 2240
Wesley Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

—— ee,

Bos Brower is working for Beau Brummel Ties, Ine., |
in Cincinnati. His address is 719 Avon Fields Lane.

Jack Ganonc has been working with the United |
States Rubber Company since the first of the year. He is_
now in the mercantile department learning all the mil-
lion and one things there are to know about belts, hose,
etc. He was with the American Presidents Lines and
made a couple of trips out to China and Manila and
back, but couldn’t see staying out at sea for six years.
before the company would bring him ashore for a job,”

 

Henry Brappock is working in Lynchburg, Virginia,
his home town, for Steptoe and Patteson, Inc., Real Estate
and Insurance. His address is Englewood Road, Route 4,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

T. P. Wartnc, Jr., was awarded the prize offered by
the Yale Medical School for the student attaining the
highest standing in the first two years of Medicine.

Gwynn W. Merrirr is in the insurance business in
Buena Vista, Virginia. |

 

¥
4
<
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

coerteoserstaarermrsneys seems

McCRUM'S

%

eae

Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY

In Lexington and Vicinity
vy
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
vy
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

Disetinectlnn Dooaetloninannetnrecettamnemnatanrestiennncatie meetin nen aver vei ase ET TED a AE SEE ET ie Te ae rete a met
~ - seesteecietenestenestes ———— eee —

Se ee a ee Oe TO ee TT TT TTT Tr Ve TV TV TT OTT VT VT Ve TCT er VV VO Oe eV VV YY YN

hh ln ln ln ln cn cline cll chin lin clin cin cA clin ln lin i ln din cline lt ln tlt dll cle tli thi he li lt dl

 

 

ot
Ow
bo
——

 

 

 
 
 
 

Se ae ee eet , - ime

 
 

nme i a ‘eee

 
 

SO PO ee sae

 

 

