The
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

FEBRUARY, 1948

 

eo

| PLEASE KEEP |
| OFF GRASS |

‘ >

‘

 

LIPRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE
JUN 2 0 1977
ALUMNI FUND REPORT

In This Issue ' IT WON'T BE LONG NOW
LOST: 1500 MEN

Class Agents for 1948

1892
1893
1894

—Dr. E. L. Green, 328 Sims Avenue, Columbia, S. C.

—B. A. Judd, Van Alstyne, Texas.

—E. P. Coles, 501 Commercial National Bank Build-
ing, Charlotte, N.C.

—Rev. C. J. Boppell, 2666-37th Avenue, S. W., Seattle
6, Washington.

—Marion W. Ripy, 4 E. 43rd St., New York 17, N.Y.

—Edward Wohlwender, 209 Murray Building, Colum-
bus, Georgia.

—Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington Street,
Chicago 2, Illinois.

1895

1896
1897

1898

1899 —Dr. James A. McClure, 617 Ninth Avenue, So., St.
Petersburg, Florida.

1900 —

1901 —Dr. R. Waller Blain, 203 South Main St., Sainte

Genevieve, Missouri.
—Volney M. Brown, State National Bank Building,
105 South Oregon Street, El Paso, Texas.

1902

1903 —R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia.
1904 —J. B. Akers, 3415 Fulton Street, N. W., Washington
y fie is Si
1905 —Judge Walter G. Riddick, 2416 Wolfe, Little Rock,
Arkansas.
1906 —Judge John W. Eggleston, 301 City Hall Building,

Norfolk 10, Virginia.
1907 —Dr. A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Florida.
1908-A—Abram D. Somerville, P.O. Box 387, Cleveland,
Mississippi.
1908-L—Alonzo B. McMullen, P. O. Box 1772, Tampa 1, Fla.
1909-A—Dr. J. W. Claudy, Rockview Farm Prison, RFD No.
3, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.
1909-L—Judge Daniel K. Sadler, Supreme Court, Santa Fe,
New Mexico.
1910-A—Hamilton A. Derr, Vanguard Paints & Varnishes,
Inc., Marietta, Ohio.
1910-L—Orange W. Richardson, 803 Columbia Building,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
1911-A—L. L. Humphrey, Box 431, Duncan, Oklahoma.
1911-L—Roger M. Winborne, 209 Highland Avenue, Lenoir,
North Carolina.
1912-A—Dr. Edward Lyons, 1331 East Boundary Street,
Gainesville, Florida.
1912-L—J. Blackburn Watts, Watts, Poffenberger & Bowles,
Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.
1913-A—Dr. William T. Hanzsche, 347 Spring Street, Tren-
ton, New Jersey.
1913-L—Hon. Ryland G. Craft, Gate City, Virginia.
1914-A—Henry N. Barker, 6 Sixth Street, Bristol, Tennessee.
1914-L—Merriman S. Smith, P. O. Box 633, Bluefield, W. Va.
1915-A—Rev. James E. Bear, Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Virginia.
1915-L—Loring C. Kackley, P.O. Box 66, Berryville, Va.
1916-A—David A. Falk, Box 2940, Tampa 1, Florida.
1916-L—E. B. Rose, 537 N. Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky.
1917-A—Dr. R. Glenn Craig, 490 Post Street, Room 521, San
Francisco, California
1917-L—Herbert G. Peters, Peters, Lavinder, Peters & Rouse,
Attorneys-at-Law, Bristol, Virginia.
—John L. McChord, 2924 Carlton Road, Shaker
Heights, Ohio.
—Dr. C. Houston Patterson, 315 Stowers Street, Blue-
field, West Virginia.
1920-A—James P. Hill, Atlantic National Bank Building,
Jacksonville, Florida.
1920-L—Fred D. Townsend, 929 King Street, Columbia, S. C.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, Peoples National Bank, Lynchburg,
Virginia.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, P. O. Box 2848, Orlando, Fla.
1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 North Irving Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia.

1918

1919

1923-A—Thomas Jean Ellis, Jr., 102 South Monroe Street,
Tallahassee, Florida.
1923-L—Robert H. Carr, R. H. Carr Lumber Company, Jas-
per, Alabama.
1924-A—Howard D. Leake, 314 Edgewood Boulevard, Bir-
mingham 9, Alabama.
1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, Box 253, American Bank and
Trust Company Building, Suffolk, Virginia.
1925-A—Vernon J. Kreienbaum, Greenville Manufacturing
Company, Emporia, Virginia.
1925-L—Luther L. Copley, 1117-1118 Pan American Bank
Building, Miami, Florida.
1926-A—Carl B. Knight, Big Stone Gap, Virginia.
1926-L—Earle A. Cadmus, New Kirn Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.
1927-A—George E. Burks, 402 Washington Building, Louis-
ville, Kentucky
1927-L—Leslie Storey Stemmons, 401 Republic Bank Build-
ing, Dallas 1, Texas.
1928-A—J. Davis Reed, Jr., 513 Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk, Virginia.
1928-L—Norman R. Crozier, Jr., Southwestern Life Building,
Dallas 1, Texas.
1929-A—Joe L. Lockett, 2201 Gulf Building, Houston 2, Tex.
1929-L—Charles L. Claunch, 1023 Chattanooga Bank Build-
ing, Chattanooga 2, Tennessee.
1930-A—Kenneth L. Keil, 909 Myers Bldg., Springfield, III.
1930-L—E. I. Bostwick, 801 Mutual Building, Richmond, Va.
1931-A—Paul Allen Hornor, Box 386, Clarksburg, W. Va.
1931-L—John Charles Smith, 50 South Lasalle, Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.
1932-A—R. L. McKinney, Jr., 307 W. Woodward Street,
Denison, Texas.
1932-L—Ross L. Malone, Jr., J. P. White Bldg., Roswell,
New Mexico.
1933-A—-Luther F. Violett, 290 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Bank of Shelbyville Building,
Shelbyville, Kentucky.
1934-A—Richard W. Grafton, One West State Street, Tren-
ton 8, New Jersey.
1934-L—Albert M. Fowler, Hotel Belleville, Belleville, Il.
1935-A—William Schuhle, Adrian College, Adrian, Michigan
1935-L—E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., 100 Market Street, Cam-
den, New Jersey
1936-A—Kenneth P. Lane, Box 1538, Richmond, Virginia.
1936-L—Hugh D. McNew, 1336 McCutcheon, Richmond
Heights 17, Missouri.
1937-A—Fielden Woodward, Jr., Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Kentucky.
1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of J. Goldsmith & Sons Co.,
Memphis 1, Tennessee
1938-A—Samuel P. McChesney, Jr., care of American Week-
ly, 1556 Hanna Building, Cleveland, Ohio.
1938-L—Frank L. Price, 410 Lincoln Ave., Takoma 12, Md.
1939-A—Charles H. Semple, 1481 South Third Street, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.
1939-L—-J. Vaughan Beale, 7236 Newport Ave. Norfolk, Va.
1940-A—Sydney Lewis, Attorney-at-Law, Broad-Grace Ar-
cade, Richmond, Virginia.
1940-L—Harry Roberts Stephenson, Jr., 1411
Building, Greenville, South Carolina.
1941-A—Henry Thomas Martin, 422 King George Avenue,
S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.
1941-L—Pete Barrow, Richwood, West Virginia.
1942-A—Robert F. Campbell, Jr., 6 Pearson Drive, Asheville,
North Carolina.
1942-L—Robert C. Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville 2, Kentucky
—Albert D. Darby, Jr., 4415 Main Avenue, Norwood
12, Ohio.
—Clarence F. Johnson, Jr., 814 East Morris Street,
Dalton, Georgia.

Woodside

1943

1944

 

 

Appalachian—A. Carter Crymble, ‘18, Ten-
nessee Eastman Corp., Kingsport, Tenn.

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building

paar etre Galloway, °43, 1312 John
treet

Birmingham—John F. Hendon, ’24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee Kenna, ‘40,
501 Swarthmore

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., '19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Florida West Coast—B. L. Malone, ‘24 Flor-
ida National Bank Bldg., St. Petersburg

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—J. L. Lockett, '29, Acting Secretary,
Gulf Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘'28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, °33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—Edward S. Graves, '30, 409 Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Gossett W. McRae, '28, 19 Rector
Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, ’35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., ‘41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—Dr. O. Norris Smith, '29, 363 North
Elm Street, Greensboro, North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, °15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Elwood Seal, '16, 726 Jack-
son Place, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1948 No. 2

 

Bate. so eee Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Peasant: oes Leon W. Harris, 1915
Vice-President.................0..-. L. W. Witson, 1910
SCCTELOLY.......ccccsces Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TT CQSUTER ...0.0ccccceccececsees WarrEN E. Tirtson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Tuos. S. KirKpatrick, 1913
Leon W. Harris, 1915
Amos A. BoLen, 1937

LAURENCE W. WI son, 1910

Henry P. Jounston, 1929

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911

WarreEN E. Titson, 1926

THE FRONT COVER

SOMEBODY NEVER GETS THE WORD!... Or at least
he doesn’t believe in signs. The cover depicts the campus the
way it has looked through practically the entire winter. The
photo was taken from the end of the colonnade in front
of Tucker Hall, looking toward the chemistry building,
by Owen Easley, *48

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

The Meaning of this Issue

This issue records, at least in part, the making of an-
other chapter in the long history of Washington and Lee,
a glorious chapter, a chapter of generosity and of faith.
Thus is it a continuation of the same story, for that Uni-
versity is the symbol of generosity and of faith.

* *K K OK

To the alumni groups which I have been privileged to
address, I have reported that the assets of their Alma
Mater now approach eight million dollars. Of this amount,
not one penny has ever come from tax sources, the con-
tribution of a political unit as such; not one penny has
come from an organized religious body or group; not
one penny—well, not many pennies at least—can be traced
to the profits of operation.

* OK OK Ok OK

This sum of money, in practical entirety, is the expres-
sion of voluntary giving. These gifts come through all the
years, and they have come from a great many people; we
may surmise that ten thousand or more donors are here
represented. The gifts have come in different forms—
here a building, here an endowment of a chair, here a
scholarship, here an undesignated benevolence of large
dimension, here a gift that is tiny in amount but incal-
culable in sacrifice represented. The gifts have come
from many motives of unselfishness, here a memorial to a
dear one of the sweet years gone, here a response to a
sudden current need, here a vision of future opportunity.

* kK KK

But all of these benefactions are the concrete expres-
sion of the noblest sentiments of which we are capable,
of the sacred sentiments of love and of belief in the re-
sponding capacity of youth.

* Kk K K *

Thus the University has been able to offer every stu-
dent far more than he was called upon to pay for; even
if he paid all fees, as most of the boys have done, this

student did not pay much more than half of the cost of
his education. These donors of the great past have de-
posited a capital sum, the income to be applied year by
year for every student; and that income amounts to al-
most the charge assessed in terms of tuition.

kK K K *

Talking in these terms of the founders who have
given the outward resources, Washington and all of his
fellows, I do not forget, of course, the gracious souls of
the past who have given their spiritual treasures—Lee and
his wonderful company. No statistical estimate can ever
be put upon such values.

* *K K K

But in the current moment of what we call the Bi-
centennial Campaign, we are trying to quicken generosity
and faith into a future competence. We are seeking to
build for tomorrow as these honored ones of yesterday

have built for today.
aes 3

My conviction is overwhelming that when we invite
an alumnus or a friend to share in this building, we do
more than ask for a check or a promise ; we do more even
than to propose election in a distinguished fraternity of
those who built in former years. We are providing an
opportunity for the purest generosity that bears fruitage
in future blessings; and we are suggesting an invest-
ment of the finest faith, short of the heavenly assurances,
that we can cherish, a faith in the fineness and the promise

of our youth.
‘ees

And as this building of a greater Washington and Lee
goes on today, I am moved by some of the profoundest
emotions of my life, gratitude for all who have worked
and all who have given, joy that in our hands the dream
of Washington and the devotion of Lee—and may we
say reverently, the purposes of God—shall not suffer
neglect.

fod. J” |

President

[4 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

It Won't Be Long Now

 

“Dear Cy—
“When does the touch come?

“This suspense is killing me. Last Winter
they started telling me about the Bicentennial
and the Three Million Dollars. All during the
Spring and Summer they sent me little book-
lets. We had a blowout here in the Fall, and I
saw the movie. So I’m convinced...

“Now I see in the papers that the Fund has
almost a Million in it. And still nobody writes
to ask me to kick in. Nobody comes to see me.
My small share of the cash is burning holes in
my pocket. Please relieve the agony...”

“P.S. And who gave the Million?”

 

 

 

T IS hardly necessary to say that that alumnus got quick

service. For others who may feel somewhat the same way,
but not strongly enough to write a letter about it, The Bi-
centennial Office made up the following resume of the cur-
rent campaign situation:

The Fund now has approximately $955,000 in cash in it.
About $340,000 of this came during late November and De-
cember, when contributors who had been calculating their
margin of tax-exempt giving for 1947 sent in their checks,
some through chairmen, others directly to the University.

There is now a chairman in almost every city or town in
the nation where more than three alumni reside. In larger
cities and in regions where alumni are scattered, these chair-
men are being assisted by volunteer committees of, in some
cases, more than a dozen members. There are already over
200 local organizations and several more are in process of
formation.

Some of these committees have completed their visiting,
others are almost through, and a few which have recently
been appointed have not yet started.

These chairmen and committeemen are volunteers who
have given their own money and are now calling on others
who are interested in Washington and Lee. Since they are
generally business or professional men of responsibility in
their communities, they cannot devote a major part of their
time to the Bicentennial. Therefore, it is difficult to complete
the campaign in any one region within a short period. How-
ever, these committees hope to contact every alumnus to ask,
in a personal way, his support and contribution to the Bi-
centennial.

It was estimated early this month that less than 20 per
cent of the 15,000 persons who are alumni, parents of stu-
dents or of alumni, or friends of the University, had been
approached. At that time about $300,000 had been contributed
by students and alumni, about $260,000 by parents, and about

$380,000 by others (including friends, foundations, corpora-
tions and the General Education Board of New York, which
had given $150,000 to match $600,000 in gifts by others). The
lists of contributors are printed elsewhere in this issue.

The largest individual contributors to the fund have been
the estate of Mrs. Martha Menkemeller of Wheeling, West
Virginia, $200,000; Mrs. Alfred I. Du Pont of Wilmington,
Delaware, whose Bicentennial gifts amount to more than
$102,000; and the Lykes Brothers Steamship Company, which
has contributed $70,000 to the Fund.

The General Education Board has promised $150,000 more
if another $600,000 is raised for scholarships and endowment
during 1948.

Among the areas where campaigns were most effectively
supported during 1947 were Atlanta, Birmingham, Jackson-
ville, Hartford, Memphis, Chattanooga, San Antonio, Char-
lotte, Wheeling, Bluefield, Baltimore, Cumberland, Lynch-
burg, Lexington and Norfolk. Even in these localities, how-
ever, there are many alumni who have not yet been reached.

Four of the 135 memorial scholarships in honor of those
who died in World War II have already been completed on a
full tuition basis and will be awarded during the spring. The
scholarship in honor of Dick Mayo Lykes °45, of Houston
was given by members of the Lykes family; the scholarship
in the memory of Herbert Grooms Smith, Jr. ’43, of Newport
News was given by a friend of Judge Herbert G. Smith, and
the one in honor of Robert Eugene Ridenhour, III, ’45, of
Concord, North Carolina, was subscribed by the members
of the Ridenhour and John L. Crist families.

The one in the memory of Julian Leroy Dart, Jr., ’39 of
Jacksonville, was subscribed by 49 corporations and individu-
als, most of them non-alumni, who made contributions rang-
ing from $5 to $2,500.

Among other scholarships which have been established
in connection with the Bicentennial program are a full-tuition
scholarship given by John W. Drye, ’20, in honor of his
mother, the late Mrs. Elizabeth Cave Drye; one given by
Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr., and Philip A. Laughlin in honor of
their mother, Mrs. Mary Magruder Laughlin; and one given
by Henry P. Johnston, ’29, in honor of the late Charles
Poellnitz Johnston, his father.

 

1749 THE BICENTENNIAL OBJECTIVES 1949

1. To provide—through Memorial Scholarships honoring
our war dead—a full tuition scholarship, each year in per-
petuity, for 135 young men who deserve a Washington and
Lee education but who cannot otherwise afford it.

2. To compensate by enlarged endowment for the de-
creased income on investments, so we may hold our present
faculty, attract others of sound academic achievement, and
thus maintain during a third century our traditional high
standard of individual instruction.

3. To provide the additional buildings needed today—an
auditorium, another science building, an enlargement of
Doremus gymnasium—and more modern facilities for academ-
ic, scientific and professional instruction.

 

[5]

lumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

This was required to locate one missing alumnus

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Lost—1500 Men

By Thomas C. Wilson, Jr., ’43
Editor, Alumni Directory

DESCRIPTION—Washington and Lee Alumni
LAST SEEN—lIn Most of the 48 States
WANTED FOR QUESTIONING

Your University is conducting one of the greatest “man
hunts” in history, the size of which would stagger the
imagination of any bureau of missing persons, for we are
not tracking down merely a few men, but 1500. Some of
them have been unlocated for as many as twenty years.

Although our work is that of a private detective on a
mass production scale, our equipment is not of the conven-
tional magnifying glass type, but rather consists of telephone
directories, legal, medical and other professional directories,
various Who’s Who publications, personal files, university
and fraternity directories, newspapers, etc. Our contacts are
not underworld characters, but mayors, city clerks, secretaries
of chambers of commerce, bar and medical associations,
Army, Navy and government officials, ministers, friends,
classmates, and many others. Our employer is the Alumni
Directory, which must locate these men for interrogation
purposes.

For the benefit of those alumni who have expressed an
interest in our approach to this undertaking, let me present
two “case histories” for illustration:

I. Mr. Reuben B. Armistead
Last known address—Hopkinsville, Kentucky

We had a note on his file card that he was believed to be
a preacher living somewhere in Texas. Checked his applica-
tion and found that he was a Methodist—therefore he must
be a Methodist minister. Called the local Methodist minister
to see if he had a national directory. He hadn’t, but recom-
mended that we write to the “Christian Advocate” in Chicago,
as they have records for the whole country. They suggested
that we write to a Texas minister, which we did. This man
replied “never heard of him.” Then we learned that Mr.
Armistead attended the University of Kentucky, and we wrote
to that Alumni office. They sent us an address for him in
Atlanta, Georgia. We sent him a questionnaire which he re-
turned with a note on the bottom “I wonder how you got
my present address.” It seems that since he left Washington
and Lee he has lived in 8 different towns and cities in four
states, including a stay of a few months in California.

II. Mr. F. S. C. Pomeroy
Last known address—Mission, Kansas

We found a letter from a Mrs. F. C. Pomeroy, who was
the wife of an alumnus, and sent a tracer to her. She replied
that she had never heard of the man for whom we were look-
ing. We checked our files and found that we have both an
F. C. Pomeroy and an F. S. C. Pomeroy. We learned that at
one time the latter’s mother lived in Media, Pennsylvania.
We could not find her listed in the suburban Philadelphia
telephone book, but did find a Dr. J. Pomeroy, who lived in
that town. We sent him a tracer card. He forwarded it to the
alumnus’ mother, who sent it to her son, who returned it to
us and told us he was now living in Cambridge, Maryland.

Strangely enough, these cases are extremely typical of
hundreds of others: the alumnus unlocated for 20 years whom
we discovered in the phone book of a city far removed from
his last known address; the elusive man in that same city
for whom we received four different “new” addresses in the
space of three months, all erroneous; and the alumnus last
known to reside in San Francisco fifteen years ago, whom
we found to be a vice-president of a well-known airline and
living in Washington, D. C. Only the space limitation of this
article prevents us from including many others.

All of these cases were terminated successfully, as have
been 640 others at this writing. What of the remaining 800-
odd? Tracer proceedings are being instituted whenever a
lead of any sort is obtained, but we are rapidly exhausting
the source of supply. In fact, only one remains untapped—a
general appeal to all alumni—and we are in the process of re-
sorting to that. We have enlisted the support of the class
agents, who will include in their letters (which will reach
every located alumnus) a list of all their lost classmates. If,
upon receipt of this letter from your class agent, you find
that you may be able to shed light on the present whereabouts
of any of these alumni, please contact this office immediately.
Your University will be as indebted to you as it is to the
many others whose splendid cooperation has made our pres-
ent achievement possible.

Unfortunately, these unlocated alumni are not the only
obstacle in the path toward an accurate and complete di-
rectory. Another is the failure of many alumni to fill in and
return the questionnaires which we know they have received.
The quality of any publication of this sort is directly pro-
portional to the cooperation of each alumnus in furnishing
us with the information about himself which will complete
his entry in the directory. If we do not obtain this data from
the individual himself, we shall be forced to use whatever in-
formation we now have—and that is, in many cases, inevi-
tably erroneous and out-of-date.

So if you are among those who have overlooked returning
the questionnaires, please remedy this situation at your earli-
est convenience. In that way, you will do your part in mak-
ing the Washington and Lee Alumni Directory 1749-1949 a
fitting publication for our Bicentennial celebration.

 

BULLETIN

Every Washington and Lee man will be interested in the
April issue of HOLIDAY Magazine, appearing on news-
stands March 17. The issue features a “Virginia Portfolio” in-
cluding three pages of pictures and prose on Washington
and Lee. The W. and L. layout occupies the lead position in
the story’s treatment of Old Dominion schools, and will con-
tain a sterling endorsement of the University’s standards and
traditions. Bicentennial committeemen should find the maga-
zine especially useful.

Also, a piece on the 1948 Fancy Dress Ball is scheduled
for LOOK Magazine’s issue of April 13, appearing March 30.

[7 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the Campus

 

Elliot Lawrence at Fancy Dress Broadcast

FANCY DRESS

Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress Ball, now the South’s
premier college social affair, had its beginning on Shrove
Tuesday, February 12, 1907, when Miss Annie Jo White,
president of the campus Dramatic Club, used the profits from
a play, amounting to $44.00 to finance a “Bal Masque,” as a
reward for students appearing in the play. The costumes,
then as now, were furnished by Van Horn of Philadelphia.

The 1948 Fancy Dress theme, based on Hampton Court
under Charles II, with five hundred collegiate couples, led by
Ralph Davis, President, as Charles II, and Miss Jane Harp,
of Hillsville, Virginia, as Queen Catherine of Braganza, was
the high spot of a week-end of festivities including the Junior
Prom on Thursday, the band concert in Doremus Gymnas-
ium on Saturday afternoon and the Omicron Delta Kappa
formal Saturday night; together with many fraternity and
private parties in the intervals.

With beautiful and elaborate decorations, the unexcelled
dance music, by Elliot Lawrence, a nation-wide broadcast
from 12:05 to 12:30 over the Columbia Broadcasting System,
the beautiful girls and their handsome escorts in exquisite
costumes, demonstrated that from its infancy in 1907, Fancy
Dress had developed into a lusty maturity. A postcard notice
of the CBS Broadcast was mailed to all alumni from the
Alumni Office, and many former participants in past Fancy
Dress Balls were, in spirit, among those present.

Look Magazine of April 13, appearing on the news stands
on March 30, will carry a picture of Fancy Dress.

* * 2K ok *

STUDENT COOPERATION IN
THE BICENTENNIAL PROGRAM

Student Body President Fred Vinson has announced the
appointment of Bill Chipley to head the student War Memo-
rial Scholarship Committee. The committee plans to raise the
sum of $10,000, representing one of the memorial scholarships.

In preparation for a student Bicentennial publication next

Fall, many outstanding cartoonists and prominent journalists
have been approached and have indicated their willingness
to contribute. H. C. “Bud” Fisher and Milton Caniff, national-
ly known American cartoonists, are among those who have
accepted the invitation to contribute their talents. The pub-
lication is being sponsored by Sigma Delta Chi, journalism
fraternity, with Art Wood, manager.

x ok ke kx OR

PRE-BICENTENNIAL ASSEMBLY

Dr. Harold C. Urey of the University of Chicago, Nobel
Prize winner, was the speaker at the University Assembly
on February 21, continuing the series of Pre-Bicentennial
Year exercises.

Speaking from the standpoint of one whose work had
made important contributions to the development of the
atomic bomb. Dr. Urey deplored the inadequacy of the United
Nations and pled for a World Federal Union as the only real
safeguard against world destruction.

Before presenting the speaker, President Gaines conferred
upon Dr. Urey the honorary degree of Doctor of Science from
Washington and Lee University.

ee ee

NEW LIBRARIAN

Henry Edmunds Coleman, Jr., became head of McCormick
Library on January 1, 1948, succeeding Richard J. Shoe-
maker, who resigned last summer to go to Rutgers Univer-
sity in New Jersey. He came here from Washington College
in Chestertown, Maryland.

 

 

December 14, 1947

“Harvey B. Apperson, 13; John Tucker, ’10, Thomas J. Wat-
son, President, International Business Machine Corporation;
James Harman, Chapter President; Senator Willis Robertson;
and Dr. T. Brannon Hubbard, ’06.
Major General Richard J. Marshall, Superintendent of V.M.I.;
Charles S. Glasgow, ’09; Philip P. Page, ’08;
and Allen Rushton, ’25.

*Deceased

[38]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Winter Sports Resume

By Don Murray, ’48

Wrestling, basketball and swimming dominate the win-
ter sports program for 1947-1948, and while basketball for-
tunes have suffered in comparison to last year’s successes,
General swimmers and wrestlers have heaped honors on
themselves.

Carl Wise’s 1947-1948 Blue Comet basketeers, with only
three veterans on hand from the team that went to the South-
ern Conference tourney in Durham last winter, were able to
compile only seven victories over the course of the season.
Hampered early in the season by injuries, the Blue Comets
got off to a shaky start from which they failed to recover.
Newcomer Joe Auer, who played with West Virginia’s 1945
team in Madison Square Garden, was sidelined just before
Christmas vacation after a collision with an opponent, and
Captain Fred Vinson was lost to Wise’s charges with a leg
injury until the second half of the season. Steve Ulaki, only
other veteran besides George Pierson and Vinson, spent part
of the season on the bench with injuries.

Despite injuries and lack of experience (six of the Blue
Comets are freshmen, and seven were brought up from last
vear’s Junior Varsity team) W. and L. fans were treated to
some good basketball in Doremus Gymnasium during the
course of the season. Notable triumphs were registered over
Maryland, George Washington and William and Mary, and
“heartbreakers” were dropped to the Quantico Marines,
George Washington and VPI. Several of the latter games
were one, two and three point affairs.

Outstanding performers for the Blue Comets were fresh-
man Bob Goldsmith, of Beckley, West Virginia, sophomore
George Pierson, of Charleston, West Virginia, Joe Auer, of
Rich Creek, Virginia, Fred Vinson (Captain), of Washing-
ton, D. C., and Don Fergusson, of Richmond, Virginia. Gold-
smith stood fourth in State scoring standings at the end of
the season, the 6 2” freshman became recognized as one of
the best centers in the state and Conference.

 

 

a bs
= Po

Trainer Doc Boyd takes care of the boys

 

Coach Wise and five West Virginians; Goldsmith, Pierson,
Stark, Ulaki and Auer

 

Cy Twombly produced the surprise of surprises in Dore-
mus Gymnasium’s swimming pool, this year when he pre-
sented the University with an undefeated swimming team.
The Blue natators breezed through a spotless schedule, with
the narrowest margin of victory being a 42-33 triumph over
William and Mary’s Norfolk Division. Roanoke College was
sunk decisively twice, and the Generals splashed to wins over
George Washington, VPI, and William and Mary. Prospects
for next season are good, for Twombly expects to have all
of this year’s team on hand next winter.

Brightest light of the swimming team was freshman
“Yutch” Stolz, who swam the 220 and 440 yard events
throughout the tank season without a defeat. Ed Rushton, a
medley and 150 yard backstroke specialist, was another main-
stay in all of the Generals’ six meets. Other outstanding
members of the team were Frank Carter, and Bruce West,
the latter handling the dive events.

But the winter sport of greatest expectations (and, to
date, fulfillments) is wrestling. Not since the days of Archie
Mathis’s mat teams has a Washington and Lee wrestling
squad enjoyed such a season as has the present edition. Un-
der the tutelage of Harry Broadbent, who revived the sport
here last year, the General Grapplers have swept through an
eleven match schedule like avenging furies. Beaten only once,
and then by Franklin and Marshall college of Pennsylvania...
a school almost perennially acknowledged to be one of the na-
tion’s wrestling powerhouses, Broadbent’s matmen have
bowled over ten opponents with consummate ease. In South-
ern Conference competition the Generals are undefeated.

As this magazine goes to press Washington and Lee is
preparing to play the role of host to the Southern Confer-
ence Wrestling Tournament, held this year in Doremus Gym-
nasium, March 8 and 9. Seven teams (Duke has refused to
enter a team in the tournament) will compete for the Con-

[9 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ference championship won last year by the University of
North Carolina. Earlier this season, the Tarheels roared into
Doremus Gymnasium and then tiptoed out several hours
later... beaten, 21 to 3. The Conference crown might con-
ceivably change hands this year and wind up in Lexington.
It hasn’t been here in several years.

There can be no doubt that Broadbent’s wrestling team is
a formidable combination. On only two occasions have the
Blue grapplers been held to less than twenty points in a
match. The early-season loss to Franklin and Marshall was by
a score of 17 to 9, the last bout being the deciding factor,
and the final match of the season, this time against West
Virginia, was won by the Generals, 17 to 8. In this match,
Broadbent moved each wrestler up one weight, with the
result that the W. and L. 128 pound wrestler was opposed by
a West Virginian weighing 136 pounds; the W. and L. 136
pound wrestler was opposed by a West Virginian weighing
145 pounds, and so on down the line. There can be little
doubt that without the juggling the final outcome would have
been much more decisive. Coach Broadbent, however, is not
an unreasonable man. As a further example, it may be noted
that several times throughout the season, Broadbent used
Junior Varsity wrestlers in several weights to give varsity
men a rest!

In the season opener in December, Loyola University of
Baltimore was downed, 31 to 5. The following evening, at
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, the Generals suffered their only
loss of the season as Franklin and Marshall squeezed out a
victory, 17 to 9. Just after Christmas vacation, the Generals

 

 

.

Mr. Big and Mr. Little: Jerry Jack, 300 pounds; Tiger
Townsend, 117 pounds.

journeyed to Charlottesville and smothered the University
of Virginia’s matmen, 26-4, two draw matches preventing
a shutout over the Wahoos.

With the victory string under way, the Blue grapplers
turned to the Southern Conference and began to batter Con-
ference opponents with awesome ease. Maryland went down,
25 to 3. North Carolina and North Carolina State were beat-
en in consecutive matches, 21 to 3 and 25 to 3. The Gobblers
from Virginia Tech were roughly treated, 26 to 6. A “breather”
match with the Norfolk Naval Apprentice School was in-
serted in the Generals’ schedule, and the Blue sank the
mariners, 20 to 8. In this match junior varsity men predomi-
nated; only one varsity wrestler was used.

Returning to the Southern Conference wars the Blue
whipped Davidson, 22 to 6, and then followed this victory
with a 25 to 5 lashing of Duke, last SC opponent on the
schedule. The final match of the season saw West Virginia
go down, 17 to 8.

Nor must this article close without mention of the Junior
varsity team which completed an undefeated ten-match sched-
ule. Like the varsity, the J-V grapplers were held to less than
twenty points only twice in the course of the season. Among
opponents defeated by the junior Generals were J-V teams
of Virginia, Virginia Tech and Navy. Granby High School,
noted for its fine wrestling teams, was decisively trounced,
23 to 15. Broadbent has few worries about possible replace-
ments for varsity men should the occasion arise, for he some-
times finds it difficult to choose between varsity and J-V
men for use in matches.

Going into the Southern Conference tournament the Gen-
erals have three undefeated varsity wrestlers, all of whom
must be counted on as potential Southern Conference cham-
pions. At 175 pounds is freshman Bob Mahoney, of Merrick,
Long Island. In eleven matches Mahoney has demonstrated
skill that stamps him as the Conference’s top man in his
weight. At 145 pounds, Ken Finley, scholastic champion of
the state of Indiana last year is undefeated in eleven matches.
Finley, another freshman, is one of the best “take down” men
in Southern Conference wrestling. The third of the Generals’
trio of undefeated wrestlers is another Long Islander, Cal
Guest. Guest, at 121 pounds, went undefeated in eleven
matches. He, too, is a freshman.

Leading scorer of the Blue grappling team is Ted Loner-
gan, of Flanders, New Jersey. Lonergan leads his mates in
the number of falls gained by individual team members. He is
the fourth of seven freshmen on the starting team.

Three more freshmen, Irvin Wicknick (155 pounds), Joe
Sconce (136 pounds), and ponderous Jerry Jack (heavy-
weight) have turned in creditable roles as varsity wrestlers.
Sconce, a Tulsa, Oklahoma, champion, has been beaten once
this season, and has twice been held to draws. Wicknick is
one of Broadbent’s proudest achievements. The Johnstown,
Pennsylvania, freshman started out the year as a beginner in
wrestling circles, and finished up the season winning more
than half his matches. Jerry Jack, who when not wrestling
carries a lot of weight (280 pounds or so) around Art Lewis’
football field, has improved a lot since the season’s start, al-
though he is the lowest scoring member of the team. Dan
Boone, of the J-V squad, has spelled Jack several times this
year, and both boone and Jack may be expected to be most
valuable to the varsity next year.

The only upperclassman on the Generals’ mat squad is
eccentric, genial Ken Lindell, a letterman on last year’s team.
Lindell, another Long Islander (Lindell, Mahoney, and Guest
all prepped at Mepham High School, Merrick, Long Island)
is a sophomore, and has been beaten only once this season.

| 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

At “Derwent’—The Touch of a Vanished Hand

T THE CLOSE of the Civil War, General Robert E. Lee

joined his wife, his son, General Custis Lee, and his
daughters at the home on Franklin Street, in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, now called the Lee Home, and owned and occupied by
the Virginia Historical Society.

General Lee had had many offers of high paying positions,
but he had refused them all, and in a letter to General Long,
he said: “I am looking for some little, quiet home in the
woods, where I can procure shelter and my daily bread.”

Mrs. Elizabeth Randolph Preston Cocke, the sister of
Colonel J. T. L. Preston, of Lexington, Virginia, lived at
the beautiful home, “Oakland,” on the James River, some
forty or fifty miles from Richmond, Virginia. She came to
Richmond, and invited the Lees to stay with her at “Oak-
land.” Her kind invitation was accepted, and in June, 1865,
the Lees left Richmond for “Oakland.” General Lee, his wife
and daughters went by canal boat, and General Custis Lee
rode Traveller, to “Oakland.”

General Robert E. Lee’s berth on the canal boat had been
prepared for him, but he preferred to spend the night on the
deck of the boat, under his military cloak.

In a letter from “Oakland,” written by Captain Edmund
Randolph Cocke. he says: “No doubt that was the last night
he ever spert under the open sky.” No, it was not. On Sep-
tember 17, 1865, on his way to Lexington, Virginia, General
R. E. Lee and Traveller spent the night at Rock Fish Gap,
near Afton, under the autumn sky, General Lee on the ground,
under his military cloak, and Traveller tethered nearby.

“Oakland” had been in the Cocke family for more than

* aie cf ”
4

 

.——
- che
Cs. eae ee ws a,
oe ts 2 Pe ee |

ieee cae ee ee

 

“Derwent”

175 years. It was a large estate of several hundred acres, and
lay partly in Cumberland County, and partly in Powhatan
County, Virginia.

The large home building was situated in a forest of
primeval oaks, some many feet in diameter and more than a
century old.

Mrs. Cocke wished the Lees to continue to stay at “Oak-
land” but General Lee wanted “a little, quiet home in the
woods.”

On the Powhatan portion of the large estate of “Oakland,”
there was a plain tenant’s house, two stories of two rooms
each.

This home was called “Derwent.” After a week at “Oak-
land,” the Lees were settled at “Derwent.”

The “Derwent” house is surrounded by trees, but not so
large and imposing as those around “Oakland.”

For food, as well as for shelter, the Lees were dependent
upon their neighbors.

About ten miles from “Derwent,” and a mile or so from
Powhatan Court House, there lived a Presbyterian minister,
Rev. William Addison Campbell, pastor of the Mount Carmel
Church. He spent much of his time during the war preaching
to soldiers at various points, and he doubtless had met Gen-
eral Lee. This preacher had his home, “Campo Bello,” on a
seventy-five acre farm, in a beautiful forest. Much of the
land was cultivated for him by a Negro family that lived on
the place.

Shortly after General Lee’s arrival at “Derwent,” the
preacher and his wife drove over to “Derwent,” and took
General Lee a bag of meal and a ham of bacon. In the buggy
with them was their very young son, Leslie.

General Lee met the visitors at the front door. After
shaking hands with the father and mother, he turned and put
his hands on the shoulders of the little boy in plain calico
kilts, and wanted to take the boy up in his arms, but the
little one clung to his mother’s skirt. The General softly
placed his hand on the boy’s head, and with a gentle word
won the little one’s confiding smile.

The mother preserved, until her death, fifty-three years

(Continued on page 13)

[11 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

With the Local Chapters

CINCINNATI, OHIO

Fifty Washington and Lee alumni and guests met for
dinner at the Cincinnati Club, Cincinnati, Ohio, on January
12, 1948. Robert B. Shreve, ’40, newly elected president of
the local alumni chapter, presided. Dr. Gaines was the speak-
er of the evening, and Clyde Hoge, ’07, Chairman of the Bi-
centennial campaign for Southern Ohio, outlined plans for
the present drive for $3,000,000 additional endowment for
the University. The sound-color moving picture, “Two Cen-
turies of Service” was shown.

FLORIDA WEST COAST

Forty-five alumni and guests met for dinner in the Sapphire
Room, Hotel Floridian, in Tampa, Florida, on February 2,
1948, with C. T. Dawkins, ’09, president of the Florida West
Coast Chapter of the Alumni Association, presiding. H. K.
(Cy) Young, ’17, secretary of the Alumni Association, repre-
sented the University, speaking in connection with the show-
ing of the sound-color motion picture film depicting life on
the campus and Joseph T. Lykes, 09, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, discussed the progress of the Bi-
centennial program. B. L. Malone, Jr., ’24, St. Petersburg,
Florida, was elected president of the chapter for the coming
year, and Hugh Macfarlane, ’40, secretary. The following
alumni were present;

John Bell, ’21, David A. Falk, 716, Wesley P. Jackson, ’11,
Charles P. Lykes, ’39, Howard P. Macfarlane, ’13, Hugh Mac-
farlane, 40, M. J. O’Berry, ’20, Charles H. Ross, ’23, Henry
C. Tillman, ’06, Edmund Worth, ’16, Dr. E. W. Bitzer, ’07,
Russell Tarr, ’06, Alonzo McMullan, ’08, Karlyle O’Berry,
33, C. T. Dawkins, ’09, James S. Moody, ’37, Horace W.
Bittenbender, ’40, John C. Blocker, ’20, Paul Irons, ’06,
Bayard Malone, ’24, Robert L. Garges, ’43, C. W. Norvell, ’26.

GREENSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA

Dr. O. Norris Smith, ’29, was chosen president of the
Piedmont, North Carolina, local Washington and and Lee
alumni chapter to succeed A. Stacey Gifford, ’24, at the chap-
ter’s annual meeting held at Bliss’s Restaurant in Charlotte
on January 20, 1948.

Professor Charles R. McDowell, of the law faculty, spoke
on the Bicentennial drive for $3,000,000, additional endow-
ment, now in progress, and other aspects of present day life
at the University. The sound-color motion picture depict-
ing campus life at Washington and Lee was shown.

Other speakers were Dr. Henry Louis Smith, of Greens-
boro, president emeritus of the University, and Roger Har-
rison, "99, former mayor of Greensboro.

MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

The need for a voluntary endowment fund to further the
ideals and traditions which have belonged to Washington
and Lee University for nearly 200 years, was outlined by Dr.
Francis Pendleton Gaines, President of the University, be-
fore Memphis alumni at a dinner meeting held at the Pea-
body Hotel on December 16, 1947. Dr. Gaines was intro-

duced by Robert Pharr, ’29, toastmaster. L. V. (Jimmie)
Butler, ’37, president of the local alumni chapter, and Stuart
Suxton, 36, are joint chairmen of the association’s Bicen-
tennial Committee.

Dr. Gaines also spoke at a Rotary Club luncheon on the
same day, where he was introduced by Norfleet Turner, ’24,
president of the First National Bank of Memphis.

WESTERN OKLAHOMA

The Western Oklahoma Alumni of Washington and Lee
inaugurated their Bicentennial drive with a dinner meeting
at the Oklahoma Club in Oklamoha City, Friday night,
November 28.

Special guests were Milton B. Rogers from Lexington,
Virginia, and the Mayor of Oklahoma City, the Honorable
Allen Street and wife whose late son, Bob Allen Street, was
a Washington and Lee graduate.

Music specially provided during the cocktail and dinner
hours was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone, with the Wash-
ington and Lee Swing being played and sung almost every
other number.

The address by Col. Rogers and the Alumni movie brought
back fond memories to all of those present as well as pre-
senting the problems and needs of the University today.

Alumni and their wives gathered from seven different locali-
ties within a radius of 125 miles. The following were present:

Judge W. H. Brown and wife, Oklahoma City; Hon. Al-
len Street and wife, Oklahoma City; Col. M. B. Rogers, Lex-
ington, Virginia; Charles Pyle and wife, Pauls Valley, Okla-
homa; Brent Clark, Oklahoma City; Roy Hogan, Duncan,
Oklahoma; L. L. Humphrey, Duncan, Oklahoma; Edgar
White and wife, Oklahoma City; Millar White and wife,
Oklahoma City; George W. Lowry and wife, Clinton, Okla-
homa; Tom Hughes, Cushing, Oklahoma; Dr. W. B. New-
ell, Enid, Oklahoma; W. V. Collins, Enid, Oklahoma; Howard
E. Melton and wife, Oklahoma City; W. B. Kennedy and
wife, Oklahoma City; John Willard Johnson and wife, Okla-
homa City; S. E. Clarkson, Jr., and wife, Oklahoma City;
Charles D. McCabe and wife, Oklahoma City; Delos Cook
and wife, Oklahoma City; M. M. Smith, Oklahoma City;
Harry Burke, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Dr. W. J. Bryan, Tulsa,
Oklahoma.

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Approximately 100 Washington and Lee alumni, wives
and guests, held a delightful dinner meeting at Hotel John
Marshall, Richmond, Virginia, on January 20, 1948. Dr. At-
wood M. Wash, ’15, president of the local chapter, presided.
The principal speakers were Dr. Francis P. Gaines, presi-
dent of the University, Governor William M. Tuck, ’21, and
Lieutenant Governor, L. P. Collins, ’20.

SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA

Alumni of Spartanburg, South Carolina, and vicinity,
held a dinner meeting at the Spartanburg Country Club on
January 16, 1948. with J. Davis Kerr, ’24, as toastmaster.
Arrang-ments for the meeting were made by Henry J.
Blackrord, 17, and Lindsey Little, ’40. Following the dinner

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the Washington and Lee film was shown, and Dr. L. J.
Desha, ’06, Executive Director of the Bicentennial program,
discussed the current drive for $3,000,000 additional endow-
ment. Others present were:

H. R. Stephenson, Taylors, South Carolina; H. R. Stephen-
son, Jr., 40, Taylors, South Carolina; Leon Harris, °15, Presi-
dent of the Alumni, Inc., Anderson, South Carolina; Clancey
I. Ballenger, ’44, Spartanburg, South, Carolina; George De-
Pass, ’28, Spartanburg, South Carolina; Herbert Nash, ’35,
Spartanburg, South Carolina; George Price, ’34, Spartanburg,
South Carolina; Wiley Hampton, ’09, Spartanburg, South
Carolina; and Harry Phillips, °11, Spartanburg, South Caro-
lina.

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Approximately 170 alumni, wives, parents and friends
attended the buffet supper which was held at 2400 16th Street,
Washington, D. C., on December 9, 1947. Randolph D. Rouse,
"39, president of the District of Columbia local Alumni Chap-
ter, presided. After the invocation by Dr. Charles W.
Sherwin, Rector of Epiphany Episcopal Church, the moving
picture “Two Centuries of Service” was shown. Frederick
P. Guthrie, °11 and Richard W. Hynson, ’09, Co-chairmen
for the Bicentennial Program, were introduced, and Dr. Fran-
cis P. Gaines, president of the University, was the principal
speaker. The benediction was pronounced by Dr. Charles W.
Lowry, ’26, Rector of All Saints Episcopal Church. Among
the guests present were:

Dr. L. J. Desha, 06; Honorable Fred Vinson and Mrs.
Vinson; Senator W. Chapman Revercomb, °18; Representa-
tive Clarence Brown, 16; Representative W. Fadjo Cravens,
‘20, and Mrs. Cravens; Representative J. W. Flannagan, ’07,
and Mrs. Flannagan; Mrs. Harry B. Hawes; Mrs. Ferguson
Cary; Captain Horace Van Deventer and Mrs. Van Deventer;
Lloyd B. Wilson; Charles P. Light; Reverend Albert H.
Lucas and Mrs. Lucas; and Dr. Guy E. Snavely and Mrs.
Snavely.

At “Derwent”

(Continued from page 11)

later, the little plain kilt and jacket that she had made, and
that General Lee’s hands had touched.

In June, 1883, I served as an usher at the unveiling of the
Lee recumbent statue in the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Chapel. The memorial addresses were all made out of
doors, on a platform at the northwest corner of the Chapel.
After the attending crowd had been seated, I climbed into a
large nearby elm, still standing in 1948. I well remember
hearing Father Ryan repeat his poem, “The Sword of Robert
Lee.” Now for over sixty years, the boys in the elm had heard
the soft, reverent voice of the poet.

At the close of the out-of-doors exercises, with others, the
boy walked into the Chapel, and stood with bowed head at
the side of the Great Chieftain. The boy was again at “Der-
went.” He saw the same gentle gleam in the eye, and felt
again the soft touch of the hand that had once rested on his
head.

“Oakland” now lies in ashes. But the monarch oaks still
bow in reverence, as the Spirit of Lee walks beneath them.

“Derwent” still stands. The “little, quiet home in the
woods“ is almost forgotten. Under its humble roof still lives
the Gentle Spirit, and “the touch of a vanished hand” rests
upon a reverent head.

LESLIE LYLE CAMPBELL
Lexington, Virginia, January 19, 1948

 

FRANCIS PICKENS MILLER

Colonel Francis Pickens Miller, A.B. ’14, was recently
awarded the Cross of a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
The award was made at the office of the Consul General of
France by Major General Billotte, ranking French officer in
the United States. Present at the ceremony was Colonel Gil-
bert Renault who brought the medal to this country in the
course of a trip connected with the forthcoming publication
of his book, “Memoirs of a Secret Agent of Free France”
(Whittlesy House). Colonel Miller was on General Ejisen-
hower’s staff at SHAEF G-2 (Intelligence division). He and
Colonel Renault served as the French and American mem-
bers of a three man French-British-American team con-
cerned with some of the underground operations that pre-
ceded D-Day. The intelligence network organized by Colonel
Renault, who is better known by his pen name Remy, pro-
duced among other items of vital information the German
Army’s own plan of defense of the beaches involved in the
D-Day landings.

As the operation proceeded, Col. Miller was so impressed
by Remy’s skill as a raconteur that he urged him to write
down the story of his “silent company.” The resulting book,
which bears Colonel Miller’s preface in the American edition,
won the Prie Victoire in Paris last year.

Colonel Miller, whose other decorations include the Legion
of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster, the Order of the British
Empire, The Order of Leopold I, and Croix de Guerre from
the French and Belgian Governments, has been active in
Democratic politics in Virginia. He is “contributing editor”
of the new magazine called “Presbyterian Life’ and pub-
lished by the Preshyterian Church in the U.S.A. Address: Box
1757, University Station, Charlottesville, Virginia.

[ 13 ]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Standing of Alumni Fund

As of January 1, 1948

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
1876-’91........ Pl ckiseisediin’ DF, Raith damicdaiconstibe Alumni Office
RNIN a coshennt De ie Pa iithkncid ts alaionsts. E. L. Green
Bee a BO i sctak. dea TNT co cbs cc decicvavesopile mantis B. A. Judd
Te ices Dae nee TAA ace icuinis deash tad wtih tebs dace cane a P. Coles
OS POSS iene cus, GERM te kcak i seecaneea cates J. Boppell
REE RC uakk a BA es eceecetehess RE ALG chs ccksecbaines Ce W. Ripy
Re cic Pie eee a. RI ahh bclcae casted Seda Ed Wohlwender
1598 si kaw TBA tie TOs ais cnccasuttchdcatacesmtsne Ed O’Neal
LBV O > hed aie aa DE cs cecdtnen drinks Jas. A. McClure
RO sid Sacchi BD vvssasvckiseicesioneienen A. G. Davis
WoO bs ceca Bananite POD: «nei cccoteesadotons R. Waller Blain
TORN Sh asttces BDpss-ccabetenens BOE AIO sce ccdblgeh coetanaves Volney M. Brown
MO ee pte Biss thre saila SOP. le ints uate Sthaatiihe chads R. A. Ruff
To ats 4... Mh iis ice 190 OB a cc seseeodoas W. O. Wilson
Be sou scical ib caietinad ISS 00 cca eta W. G. Riddick
DOG 3s pean re ht BEE. Dr. F. R. Crawford
19GF ta eee heats BAI 2 sis sass tiepkcbasanccey V. M. Miles*
1908-A ........ 4 Oa Sst cates ve ataaees A. D. Somerville
1908-L, ........ it Ee Be gr cai RO ohivike caddis statidacakess A. B. McMullen
1909-A ........ catia ibaa OUR eiataccgncncasrnees: W. T. Delaplaine
1909-L  ........ Bie Ricigtss ss BR iecimiAcoiuenhien D. K. Sadler
1910-A ........ a Be ash ccivccsnscimasvecdes Wyatt C. Hedrick
1910-L ........ GS sch iwuhin ba Me cd Avi cts deskdee tert Wilber L. Tilden
1911-A ........ eeiestbcyais eae Wis occpcceocsNeaasesel ones Alumni Office
1911-L, ........ icccacuteectocs RMN Ti inns olde Nacsk o cesee anh: D. B. Straley
1912-A ........ Lic sscosceate PCIE dhises aowhead Senteerndnned th ares Edward Lyons
1912-1, vcccoces Bee cis saute PO ais: hnnnsdekadel oedema J. B. Watts
1913-A ........ BGs cine Sle CG Livkc lo actos sa cazschukes W. T. Hanzsche
1913-L ........ Pi sikpensoatick BIE OO Fir kin Ryland G. Craft
FORA Bick OF wihseccowsadous Bae ahs i66 iy stckessaseandees Lee R. Grabill
1914-L, ........ Baste nerds SES Cia ibis eek Merriman S. Smith
1915-A ........ Be ves iaesece Eas ents cctaheeveeegianae J. Carl Fisher
1915-L,........ Deeds tnackolh ME a Masti cisinsure dotesin A. Wendell Mann
1916-A ........ Te is ca cl POA debi lise ction Bruce F. Woodruff
1916-L. ........ ee DOR Midis teovidckguianaiocea N. C. Evans
1917-A ........ ee cade debe Wink NOOO. hack sak seiescenes Dr. R. Glenn Craig
TS Ped, wails Be rnd cctdeosts RTO G is ries be eis Herbert G. Peters
1938. Sas Prsabh ct Skevecccs BUI Ksi. adie ivescdcnietes Fulton W. Hoge
Pe Se Bilarovcidecabscs BBD OW siscic coses% C. Houston Patterson
1920-A ........ Plpdhsessévcsssias MR eiicc sks tern celina ok James P. Hill
1920-L. ........ EE PAR) RRS ane Fred D. Townsend
19Z12A 35s. Masaisssconces Ph eiinasstecsuadocs John L. Patterson
192IAT | én OG cctissibensegars BRAS A. calishiocke tadidtcin scents R. C. Wood
1922-A ........ EARLE SOR ies hevstidicsatas Troy C. Musselwhite
1922-L, ........ isting teal, Ec ockes states deh R. Bleakley James
1923-A ........ enilitie sence BID: cteicionse nccsbejsees George C. Mason
LOZ SOEs saisies. Waits a a ae WR son ednces cate clasecccivek Robert H. Carr
*Deceased

 

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
1924-A ........< TA citicctie cis SIA OO wikitiaciseiak Howard D. Leake
1924-L  ........ Btacccciaidar Th AAG, icichteasna otis J. Melvin Lovelace
1925-A ........< Dilassinsascestecs SEDAN davon vaatbecapes V. J. Kreienbaum
RBH LS indies Pt Se Nese TOO a kc eou Luther LL. Copley
POR BPs ok shen BIO O sai otkive se cponeetinin Carl B. Knight
1926-L ........ Gc tiatcctineass este ctciechctesseadaabinel Earle A. Cadmus
1927-A ........ OE casos Cuniies GEA Dele sree hiowbastien George E. Burks
1927285 ...5... Pe ids POE is dctpianton, IL. Storey Stemmons
ER aise Fy wvi cbanpsoucnts SE lhc csnncdonn gnats J. Davis Reed, Jr.
1928-L, ........ EE oF NO iirc ct actenckte Norman R. Crasier
1929-A ........ Bick Mosteccecs PPO hist viateeccs ch Walter H. Wilcox
1929-L, ........ ches tiie ksdy BIEIO adcodecedstiaskasecenictes M. M. Heuser
Nee nti cks ei bskacivks WIE: i ssksveciteebidechoaien Kenneth L. Keil
1990-1, 3: .i::.. Fae Me AE aU ac as dhahaadie ries E. I. Bostwick
ISSI HA 5. REO Deis dctdvcasdcssaseezombacns Paul A. Hornor
LO BITS seco cens ache aaah GENES Gaigiicth gees John Charles Smith
LN cos ndeDdashnns senstees AI po choo 2s coccenchigns Wm. C. Mulligan
1932-L, ...2.0. Fase ses doses TPO pi ciocsstes H. Breckenridge Heaps*
1933-A ........ RS a sckoccs BOI vicciacevcabiccbacokns Luther F. Violett
1933-L ........ Mal tc sacty CS ec celocy J. Hoge Tyler, III
SMI SisiareaM ier cdtcaseasntace UI edadnei a tetas aveabtcssace R. W. Grafton
1934-L, ........ Seba tdas RID is clesanecevecettanss Thornton G. Berry
1935-A ........ Bee can PERM Asn ckscoskevcds courts William Schuhle
1955-2. -.5.6 ea as. Depa ct oedeintkotsssastea E. M. Nuckols
1936-A ........ Peed he eek eck eit stnawssters Kenneth P. Lane
1936-L ........ daria ceaibs RR cite tes soncctik, Hugh D. McNew
1937-A ........ Witt ces tees icae BO atta lovensceiestse Robert M. Peek, Jr.
1932 -E 7 schai OR Se eae ET So hphceeds pai dathanescas Edwin M. Marks
1938-A ........ BG ahi salvar tosal RUE sibids’ soni Charles R. Skinner
1938-L ........ Bs oil eaens BIT Us veniiascssecyoaieatiabiecss Frank L. Price
1939-A ........ Wea tec icics bea) RRR Charles H. Semple, Jr.
T939e1 occas shah cccchses Pep iti ashctaresadvevst Wm. W. Perkins
1940-A ........ ilich-ieissusesss 1 Di atilatdewicdlacthes Richard W. Boisseau
1940-L, ........ Focal 80.00..Harry Roberts Stephenson, Jr.
1941-A ........ ah a cieigicoe SA atc tatbs kednn’ H. Thomas Martin
1941-L ........ ee se DT cn deivtlidetlMinidicansntadions Pete Barrow
1942-A ........ EAE OT re es Harold R. Levy
1942-L, ........ his deb aasbes SS ee Dost retnicaeeves Robert C. Hobson
Te as eta S nctia cd SB ticean tinct tiaaccaasaen Albert D. Darby
LDR nik Ta tenia Lai RED Dcoastaeess Clarence F. Johnson, Jr.
Pas consis Fist eakacs bios BE citidescainiccptahancvoosenil Alumni Office
FN. spa idssnbeadtetie QR Rashad eet hdsceesnoastes Alumni Office
ROMER cc cubes: Mi isc date Seatac ives acketakons tudces Alumni Office
ERG sacs pele Tie Oi Seeks mcd, Sen au cheiedetcdans sakeasedie Alumni Office
RA eis Batt cakccistin Ea aa Mees ces donc Alumni Office
FROM PTE D siccosnccdteckcs 1000.00
1856 $24,916.38

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Report of the 194'7 Alumni Fund

Tre REPORT records the generosity of 1856 Alumni
who contributed $24,916.38 and the loyal and un-
selfish service of the Class Agents whose combined ef-
forts made it possible to report the best year the Alumni
I-und has ever had.

In view of the approach of Washington and Lee’s
Bicentennial in 1948-49, the fact that the Alumni Fund
has again broken all previous records came as a most

 

Classes Receiving the Largest Amount of Money

Class Agent
Be: Pe Ass Ams caw Dre tee Calon (Crate o55 icaceas $1070.00
Bil TOR pe Phattidtvicsectegoates William T. Hanzsche................ 892.50
3.5 BA eBid sticidic WH miter El. WICOS. i sc cadelonsccscdecocets 770.66
Os WORT aR Re icictivicvestes Pate Fis ROP BOF iii ertidecndest Sian, 625.57
5) PPE. ho cstbiesdocvcs William T. Delaplaine................ 619.50
OF SO cate Gedroe: Te Baritesn gaa 612.00
fh RT a vaitectienth LE 50 CRY IEE | Bilesccssecaskcnt coke 599.00
Bo SLSAE A ss Bical power BD. “Teale si ce a, 532.00
DiS TSC Bas taida ts Vernon J. Kreienbaum............ 525.00
EQ i TA atiiiidoicotes Bi... Thomas. Martin. oii ck 520.00

Classes Having the Largest Number of Contributors

 

 

 

Class Agent
By ESE deh costae PIDECE Tes POMEIY GTC. cicadas cae tieiiramins 65
Be tae tine edited WING Pa We OO shire. Desdashe aise cdeda tots 57
SS 5: AEB ectcecess FE ORONG Bhi S BAOUY ccthicicocecdehislscatooidoeapendeaine ae
FOS MAS ts. rj "Enntenbe: Martian | oo oro 50
BSS eee Mihai oadnaees Comite - Bei; RRO iis iis cspconastodindsthicdaveoece 47

1939-A 3555 cis Charles H. Semple, Jr 47
Oe ber oe Pdpeicvkhodietel RE mrtenee BP. V SURE oi basa cSicncssGoecbc A wsens 46
Pe GAO Bis nie Richard W. Boisseau 45
6. 39SeRA kaa Robert M. Peek, Jr 42
Dei FIG hike ocockscheveieh UIE Fea ON ce obctattesbs hhc cit cgi rctecsccsckses 41
Lee Ys BRB Pesci crennitns Everest iss - 38

agreeable surprise to everyone connected with the Alumni
Office. It might have been expected that many alumni,
bearing in mind that in the immediate future they would
wish to make their best expression of loyalty and af-
fection for Alma Mater, would not contribute as gen-
erously as usual in this annual appeal.

It is significant that the Academic Class of 1917,
which celebrated its thirtieth anniversary at Finals this
year, Dr. R. Glenn Craig, Agent, should lead all classes
in the amount of money contributed, $1070.00, with the
Academic Class of 1913, William TT. Hanzsche, in sec-
ond place. The combined Law and Academic classes of
1943, Albert D. Darby, Jr., Agent, for the third suc-
cessive year, was the leader in number of contributors.

BICENTENNIAL AND ALUMNI FUND
MERGED FOR 1948

Until March, 1949, the Alumni Fund will be merged
with the Bicentennial Fund campaign without any sac-
rifice of the continuity of the present Class Agent Plan.
The Class Agents will make the normal contacts with
members of their class, partly to secure the information
desired for Alumni Office records and for class notes in
the Magazine, but primarily to encourage support of the
Bicentennial campaign.

All alumni contributions to the Bicentennial Fund
will be listed by classes and will be counted as contribu-
tions to the Alumni Fund. In published reports the
records of each class will be indicated in terms of the
number of contributors and the total amount contributed.

 

1876 1889
Thomas R. Boyle Samuel Wilson Dunn
1879 Judge James Quarles

1890

Douglas S. Anderson
A. K. Bowles

John M. Glenn
William M. McElwee

a6 F. M. Hud
W. J. Humphreys ane SRUCSCR
1887 1892

John W. Davis

Herbert Fitzpatrick

Ek. L. Green

W. F. Moore

Wm. C. Morton

Rees Turpin

W. G. Wiglesworth

John M. Woods
1893

Jake Fisher

B. A. Judd

Ike Kempner

Dr. George Bolling Lee
George C. Martin

H. Waddell Pratt

J. B. Ripy

Harrington Waddell

R. E. Wade

 

Edward R. Leyburn

: Agent—E. L. Green
B. Craig Patterson S°

1894
Agent—B. A. Judd

 

 

Donors Amount
1888 1946 9 $290.00
Judge Henry W. Holt* 1947 9 202.50
Greenlee D. Letcher
Francis W. McCluer R. H. Allen

Donors Amount Agent—E. P. Coles
oe 8 $ 70.00 Donors Amount
1947 10 125.00 jo 4¢ 8 $65.00
1947 ) 70.00

Dr. J. B. Bullitt

 

[15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Preston J. Beale

E. P. Coles

Leslie M. Crouch
C. H. Freeman

D. Lawrence Groner
M. H. Guerrant

Dr. Frank Hopkins
W. H. Keister
Walter McElreath

1895

 

Agent—C. J. Boppell

 

Donors Amount
1946 4 $20.00
1947 4 20.00
C. J. Boppell

W. McC. Martin
Lyne S. Smith
John P. Walker

1896

 

Agent—Marion W. Ripy

Donors Amount
1946 13 $256.00
1947 11 186.00

 

H. H. Blackburn
J. E. Burwell
Albert M. Deal
V. E. Funkhouser
Charles E. Heater
J. W. Lattomus*
Dr. H. G. Reynolds
M. W. Ripy

L. W. Smith

S. D. Stokes

Cc. C. Tutwiler

1897

 

Agent—Edward Wohlwender

Donors Amount
1946 9 $135.00
1947 7 150.00

 

Leroy C. Barret

F. Petrie Hamilton
D. H. Leake

W. J. Lindenberger
Frank Mezick

T. H. Webb
Edward Wohlwender

1898

 

Agent—Edward A. O’Neal

Donors Amount
1946 15 $160.00
1947 12 182.50

 

Henry W. Anderson
Borden H. Burr

Charles J. Faulkner
Norman §. Fitzhugh

R. W. Holt

W. Ross McCain
KE. A. O’Neal

I. W. Ripy

Dr. R. T. Shields
J. S. Slicer

Alban G. Snyder
C. W. F. Spencer

1899

 

Agent—James A. McClure

Donors Amount
1946 12 $160.00
1947 12 155.00

 

Dr. G. B. Capito

H. St. G. T. Carmichael
W. E. Davis

A. Seddon Jones

S. C. Lind

Scott M. Loftin

J. A. McClure

James Mullen

Athur M. Shipp

Ewing D. Sloan

C. P. Snyder
W. C. Watson*
1900

 

Agent—Alfred Grayson Davis

Donors Amount
1946 8 $150.00
1947 5 45.00

 

Alfred Grayson Davis
L. R. Holmes

S. Ruffin Horne

Dr. S. B. McPheeters
J. Ran Tucker

1901

 

Agent—R. Waller Blain

Donors Amount
1946 8 $57.50
1947 7 76.50

 

Matthew Page Andrews*
R. Waller Blain
Clarence C. Burns

John M. Corbett

Hale M. Houston

John William Johnson
Dr. A. L. Meredith

1902

 

_

Agent—Volney M. Brown

Donors Amount
1946 13 $200.00
1947 13 235.00

 

EK. W. G. Boogher
Volney M. Brown
W. Dewey Cooke

Robert F. Cooper

Dr. W. T. Ellis

J. Wood Glass

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson
William T. Leffel

C. S. McNulty

Osman E. Swartz

John P. Wall

D. E. Witt

Dr. Charles H. Young

1903

 

Agent—R. A. Ruff

Donors Amount
1946 20 $442.50
1947 21 330.57

 

Cary R. Blain
Thomas Ball
Clement A. Boaz
Stuart Chevalier
Henry C. Coe
Dr. J. D. Collins
B. F. Combs

R. T. Flanary

J. M. B. Gill

S. McP. Glasgow
D. V. Guthrie
W. P. Lamar
George Hugh Lee
C. C. McNeill

J. C. McPheeters
D. R. Phelps

R. A. Ruff
Hillard H. Smith
Wm. J. Turner
Robert T. Wallace
John F. Wysor

1904

 

Agent—W. O. Wilson

 

Donors Amount
1946 20 $182.50
1947 20 190.00
J. B. Akers

Alex V. Allain
Julian F. Bouchelle
Max M. Brown
Dr. W. Cole Davis
John H. Day
Robert J. Dillard
John R. Handlan
J. W. Harman
George E. Haw

R. E. L. Kolb
John McClure

M. T. McClure
Kdward C. Miller
Lyle M. Moffett

E. W. Poindexter
Dr. S. W. Schaefer
Arthur Tabb

Roy D. Thompson
W. O. Wilson

[ 16 |

 

 

1905

Agent—W. G. Riddick
Donors Amount

1946 15 $157.00
1947 11 153.00
D. A. Bradham
H. B. Conner
J. L. Daniel
A. S. Hays

J. D. Hobbie, Jr.
EK. W. Kelly

R. A. Lapsley

S. Blount Mason
D. T. Moore
John A. Moore
W. G. Riddick

 

1906
Agent—Dr. F. R. Crawford
Donors Amount
1946 33 $655.00
1947 31 445.00

 

Daniel W. Alexander
James R. Caskie

B. FE. Clark

Dr. F. R. Crawford
E. L. Davis

L,. J. Desha

C. A. Dunlap

W. H. Dunlap

J. W. Eggleston
Harvey L. Handley
EK. V. Hardway

M. Milton Herman
William L. Hoge
Claude P. Light
Basil M. Manly

B. J. Mayer

Dr. John N. Osburn
John Pilkington

H. Claude Pobst
Frank K. Rader

W. F. Railing

Ira T. Ritenour
Ernest Bowling Roeser
A. W. Rutan

John E. Scott
Mark W. Sheafe

R. B. Spindle

J. Robert Switzer
Henry C. Tillman
Kelly W. Trimble
George W. Whip

 

1907
Agent—Vincent M. Miles*
Donors Amount
1946 22 $239.50
1947 22 255.00

 

Charles F. Bagley*
T. O. Bagley
C. C. Crockett

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. R. J. Dunn*

John W. Flannagan
I. P. Gassman

David H. Hill

IE. Clyde Hoge

F. S. Hoyt

G. W. Keller

A. R. Larrick

W. L. Lord

D. W. M. MacCluer
Dr. Frank McCutchan
Martin S. McDonough
Vincent M. Miles*

H. W. Miller

John S. Moore

Dr. W. B. Newell

 

Thomas F. Opie
J. M. Sapp
W. F. Semple

1908-L
Agent—Alonzo B. McMullen

Donors Amount

1946 8 $ 92.50
1947 11 160.00

 

Dozier A. DeVane
Hiram M. Dow
Alonzo B. McMullen
James L. Mills

John W. Newman
James M. O’Brien
George E. Penn
Hunter J. Phlegar
Ray Robinson
Abram P. Staples
Roscoe B. Stephenson

1908-A

 

Agent—A. D. Somerville

Donors Amount
1946 38 $420.00
1947 32 385.00

 

Fred Bartenstein
John M. Bierer

D. P. Boyer
George M. Brandon
J. C. Carpenter

G. C. Gabriel
Robert C. Glass

W. S. Graham
Robert R. Gray
Clyde L. Green

T. N. Havlin

J. P. Hobson

W. P. Hooper
Richard W. Hynson
Robert S. Keebler
Alan Porter Lee

A. W. Lybrand
John W. Lykes

H. R. Mahler

R. C. Milling
George McP. Minetree
J. M. Moore

Philip P. Page
Richard L. Page
Earle K. Paxton
W. M. Paxton
Horace W. Phillips
Ben T. Smith
Elmer W. Somers
A. D. Somerville
Charles L. Syron
P. W. Turner

1909-L

 

Agent—D. K. Sadler

Donors Amount
1946 10 $277.50
1947 12 215.00

 

L. J. Boxley
Stafford Caldwell
C. I. Carey
Melvin E. Cruser
H. L. Hooker

S. F. Landreth
M. L. Lazarus
Guyte P. McCord
S. R. Marks
Reuben Ragland
D. K. Sadler

Beirne Stedman

1909-A

 

Agent—W. T. Delaplaine

Donors Amount
1946 26 $465.00
1947 29 619.50

 

Harvey Allen

R. R. Brown

L. C. Caldwell
John L. Campbell
A. H. Chandler

C. T. Chenery

John W. Claudy

S. G. Coe

C. T. Dawkins

W. T. Delaplaine
K. W. Denman
George J. Dominick
Sam M. Engelhardt
J. J. Forrer

Charles S. Glasgow
Devall L. Gwathmey
Amos L. Herold
Carl Hinton

Dr. A. A. Houser
J. P. Irwin

Sorsby Jemison

B. F. Kagay

H. H. Leach

J. T. Lykes

\W. E. Moreland
H. W. Ordeman*
O. R. Price

Elliott Vawter

L. T. Wilson

 

1910-L
Agent—Wilber L. Tilden
Donors Amount
1946 15 $440.00
1947 10 450.00

 

James B. Denny
David W. Earman

H. R. Hawthorne
Walter M. Hood

R. Palmer Ingram
Walter McDonald

M. H. Myerson
Orange W. Richardson
Wilber L. Tilden
Grover C. Worrell

 

1910-A
Agent—Wyatt C. Hedrick
Donors Amount
1946 26 $260.00
1947 24 259.50

 

Rayford W. Alley
R. P. Ashley

L. W. Baker
James M. Bell

J. R. Blackburn

H. A. Derr

L.. B. Dutrow
Charles I. Dwiggins
W. W. Gwathmey
Wyatt C. Hedrick
M. Cary Johnston
Dr. W. R. Laird
Philip W. Murray
J. W. Rader
Charles P. Robinson
Robert B. Stotler
R. M. Strassel

C. W. Streit

V. P. Sydenstricker
R. G. Thach

John H. Tucker
Larry W. Wilson

 

B. L. Wood
Hugh M. Witt
1911-L
Agent—Daniel B. Straley
Donors Amount
1946 19 $168.50
1947 26 251.00

 

Ben P. Ainsworth
G. M. Alexander
k,. W. Barger

F. C. Bedinger

W. F. Blanton
John F. Brown
Dr. James W. Bruce
George W. Chaney
Rosser J. Coke

W. S. Engleby

J. E. Greever

[ 17 |

Herbert B. Gregory
Omer T. Kaylor
Claude P. Light

Kk. R. Molesworth
Lewis S. Pendleston
Cleaton E. Rabey
F. B. Richardson
Robert A. Russell
Herman A. Sacks
Luther G. Scott
Donald Stant
Daniel B. Straley
D. G. Tinsley

J. T. Watson

R. M. Winborne

1911-A

 

Agent—Alumni Office

Donors Amount
1946 26 $367.00
1947 29 390.00

 

W. C. Armentrout
John M. Arnold

J. P. Barclay
James M. Barker
Rufus C. Bowman
Ek. E. Brown
Michael Brown
Lewis G. Cooper
Henry W. Dew

S. R. Gammon
Dr. R. D. Glasser
John T. Gray, Jr.
F. P. Guthrie
John G. Herndon
A. Dana Hodgdon
L. L. Humphrey
F. S. Johnson

J. G. Johnston

H. W. King
Melvin E. Kurth
EK. B. Lemon
Philip L’Engle
Clements M. McMullen
Ulen G. Medford
W. Trent Neel

T. C. Phillips

W. A. Reid

C. W. Tharpe
Brown D. Truslow

1912-L

 

Agent—J. Blackburn Watts

Donors Amount
1946 15 $175.00
1947 11 150.00

 

Byron L,. Ballard

Henry Lawrence Crowgey
Robert C. Dow

W. S. Dunn

R. Wayne Ely

L. E. Goldman

Francis J. Heazel

Alonzo G. Lively

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. Blackburn Watts
Clayton E. Williams
Russell B. Wine

1912-A

 

Agent—Edward Lyons

Donors Amount
1946 22 $430.00
1947 31 360.00

 

John D. Ankrom
Robert R. Blake
Carl C. Boyer*
Harry S. Coffey
George L. Coyle
Lloyd R. Craighill
James Nixon Daniel
Mason C. Deaver
Howard A. Doss
Thomas McP. Glasgow
Cecil Gray

Arlos J. Harbert
Freeman H. Hart

Cc. C. Henshaw

Dr. J. O. Hodgkin
Dr. W. N. Hodgkin
J. Southgate Jones
J. Frank Key
Kdward Lyons
Allan McDowell

C. Lee Ordeman
Dan B. Owen

H. E. Potter

L. B. Ranson

Dr. Frank R. Ruff
Otho Shuford

James Somerville, Jr.
Dr. J. E. Weatherford
William L. Webster

J. B. Whitfield
W. G. Wood
1913-L

 

Agent—Ryland G. Craft

Donors Amount
1946 18 $236.50
1947 17 274.00

 

Robert B. Adams
Harvey B. Apperson*
Beverley D. Causey
Ryland G. Craft

E. C. Dickerson
Henry B. Goodloe
C. E. Hunter

T. L. Keister

H. W. Kelly

H. P. Macfarlane

S. W. Maytubby
Junius W. Pulley

J. M. Quillin
Howard L. Robinson
Thomas F. Walker
H. M. Woodward
H. W. Wyant

1913-A

 

Agent—W. T. Hanzsche

Donors Amount
1946 34 $510.00
1947 28 902.50

 

Paul C. Buford

Paul D. Converse
John L. Crist

Dr. H. P. Davidson
EK. S. Delaplaine
George W. Diehl
Ben F. Fiery

Philip P. Gibson
Carter Glass, Jr.

W. T. Hanzsche

KE. C. Jalonick
Thomas S. Kirkpatrick
F. W. McWane

J. R. Mighell

Carl C. Moore
Harry E. Moran
Henry E. Peeples
Dr. J. P. Richardson
S. C. Rose
Alexander Sloan

R. A. Smith

M. A. Stevenson

W. Taylor Thom, Jr.
W. L. Tucker

Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug
Adrian Williamson
W. H. Womeldorf
William A. Wright

 

1914-L
Agent—Merriman §S. Smith
Donors Amount
1946 14 $505.00
1947 12 145.00

 

A. C. Buchanan

R. Lee Beuhring
Stephen F. Chadwick
M. N. Dunn

J. Carlton Hudson
William T. Lovins
Harry L. Miller

C. H. Morrissett
Junius L. Powell
Merriman S. Smith
Kennon C. Whittle
Samuel H. Williams

 

1914-A
Agent—Lee R. Grabill
Donors Amount
1946 33 $575.00
1947 37 599.00

 

C. R. Avery

W. Houston Barclay
Henry N. Barker
Roger J. Bear
Warren C. Brown

William M. Brown
Daniel C. Buchanan
Dr. Buford S. Burks
Edward M. Craig
Fred M. Davis
James M. Farrar
Lee R. Grabill
Wilbur C. Hall
Alex M. Hitz
James L. Hook

R. P. Hobson

J. Goodloe Jackson
Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr.
A. W. McCain

R. S. McClintock
Dr. R. B. McKnight
Morris L. Masinter
Dr. V. M. Matthews
Francis Pickens Miller
John Scott Moore
Stuart Moore

M. F. Null, Jr.
Thomas F. Ogilvie
Leon O’Quinn
Clarence L. Sager
Bruce Seddon

Dr. J. W. Selig

Ray S$. Smith

J. D. Thornton

J. E. Wayland

J. Clyde Whetzel
Walter J. Wilkins

1915-L

 

Agent—Wendell A. Mann

Amount
$505.00
422.50

Donors
1946 12
1947 13

 

Frank J. Beckwith
Arthur M. Birdsall
C. C. Chambers
Leon Harris
Joseph W. Hodges
H. B. Jordan
Loring C. Kackley
W. A. Keleher

W. Guy Laughon
R. B. Longhran
A. Wendell Mann
J. W. Milner

K. L. Shirk

1915-A

 

Agent—J. Carl Fisher
Donors

1946 29
1947 29

Amount
$395.00
482.00

 

N. B. Adams
Robert P. Adams
QO. B. Barker, Jr.
Charles R. Beall
James E. Bear
Jerry A. Burke

[18 ]

Madison P. Coe

Carl S. Davidson
Walter M. Dunlap

J. Carl Fisher

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes

C. C. Holcombe
Woodson P. Houghton
Morgan Keaton
Samuel G. Keller
Jonah L. Larrick
Rupert N. Latture
Charles T. Lile
Summerfield McCarteney
S. E. Oglesby

Walter C. Preston
George R. Shaw
William H. Smith
Tavlor H. Stukes

C. M. Switzer

Paul C. Thomas

Dr. Atwood M. Wash
Francis A. Weatherford
Ki Williams

1916-L

 

Agent—Norvin C. Evans

Donors Amount
1946 26 $192.50
1947 14 138.50

 

Clarence J. Brown
Parker W. Buhrman
Norvin C. Evans
Grady H. Forgy
Lycurgus Hyre

S. S. McNeer
Kdmund Magers
John R. Manning
Vivian L. Page

F. Stanley Porter
kK. B. Rose

Paul R. Scott
George D. Shore
Hunter M. Shumate

1916-A

 

Agent—Bruce F. Woodruff

Donors Amount
1946 22 $239.50
1947 18 222.00

 

L. Battle Bagley
A. L. Bennett

C. Lynch Christian
David A. Falk

Dr. R. P. Hawkins
M. Cecil Horner
Reuben A. Lewis
Harrison P. Magruder
John G. C. Myers
Dr. R. G. Nelson
Russell S. Rhodes
M. B. Ridenour
Dr. H. M. Rowan
Elwood H. Seal

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Edwin B. Shultz
D. E. Waggoner
Bruce F. Woodruff
C. Edmund Worth

1917-L

1918

 

Agent—Fulton W. Hoge

Donors Amount
1946 31 $332.00
1947 30 384.50

 

 

Agent—Herbert G. Peters

Donors Amount
1946 12 $137.50
1947 12 190.00

 

E. P. Barrow
John R. Brand

H. V. Campbell

L. B. Chafin
George N. Danielson
Gabriel de la Haba
J. S. Hansel

C. R. Hill

Gus Ottenheimer
Charles G. Peters
Herbert G. Peters
Herbert G. Smith

1917-A

 

Agent—Dr. R. Glenn Craig

Donors Amount
1946 32 $ 630.00
1947 34 1070.00

 

H. J. Blackford
Charles B. Blair

Dr. W. H. Brandon
W. O. Burtner

J. R. Campbell
Robert M. Campbell
Jackson R. Collins
William J. Cox

Dr. R. Glenn Craig
J. M. Faulkner

J. H. Forbes

Frank J. Gilliam

R. H. Gardner

E. L. Hix

Curtis C. Humphris
Russell H. Johnson
Homer A. Jones
James A. Lee
Robert B. McDougle
Dr. C. W. McNitt
R. Bruce Morrison
A. G. Paxton

Paul D. Pickens
Milton B. Rogers
Marion §S. Sanders
Charles R. Stribling, Jr.
David W. Thornburg
Marshall G. Twyman
Ted C. Waters

W. Calvin Wells

Dr. T. Preston White
John L. Williams

G. Raymond Womeldorf
H. K. Young

James C. Ambler

Allein Beall, Jr.

R. M. Bear

A. B. Bowman

Kk. V. Bowyer
Edmund D. Campbell
John M. Eggleston
George M. Hearne
Horace C. Hearne
Fulton W. Hoge
Homer A. Holt

W. S. Hopkins
James Lewis Howe, Jr.
Robert V. Ignico
James J. Izard

John L. McChord

L. L. MacKinnon

A. S$. Marx

S. E. Moreton

Kk. K. Nelson

M. W. Paxton

1. evadt

John G. Ramey
Robert Serpell
Murray C. Shoun
William Hiram Smith
Otto M. Stumpf
Francis H. Styles
Virgil J. Trotter, Jr.
Thomas G. Woodson*

1919

 

Agent—C. Houston Patterson

Donors Amount
1946 24 $232.00
1947 33 432.00

 

Samuel H. Baker
W. F. Barron
Leonard T. Brown
Nelson L. Brown
Dr. William Joel Bryan, Jr.
W. Roy Campbell
A. D. Collins

J. W. Cook, Jr.
Arthur M. Cromwell
Dr. T. Dewey Davis
W. J. Dungan

S. M. Evans
Theodore H. Evans
James R. Fain

H. P. Forker
Thomas W. Gilliam
Dr. H. E. Handley
John A. Johnston
Douglas E. Leckie
Joe B. Livesay
Henry K. McCormick
Louis A. McMurray
George T. Madison

Norman R. Miller
James Edward Moore
R. E. Moore

C. Houston Patterson
Clifford McC. Peale
Thomas C. Standifer
Raymond C. Till

Dr. Reid White
Frank H. Wissler
John H. Young

1920-L

 

Agent—Fred D. Townsend

 

 

Donors Amount
1946 7 $165.00
1947 8 125.00
L. Berkeley Cox
Fadjo Cravens
John W. Drye
J. M. Glickstein
Pinkney Grissom
H. G. Robertson
Fred D. Townsend
James B. Waters

1920-A

Agent—James P. Hill

Donors Amount
1946 3l $301.50
1947 22 233.00

 

John B. Atkins

Ik. G. Bailey

R. E. Baumgardner
Harry P. Burns

R. M. Cabell
James Waller Callison
Willis M. Everett
J. Glen Evins, Jr.
Carl A. Foss
James P. Hill

J. C. Hobson

W. E. Johnston

C. E. Kievlan
James W. McKown
Harry L. Moore
George S. Mueller
Howard E. Nay
W. F. Parker

E. W. Poindexter
Thomas M. Stubbs
Henry F. Trotter
R. Hence Young

1921-L

 

Agent—R. C. Wood

Donors Amount
1946 20 $243.00
1947 17 213.00

 

J. F. Bain

John Bell

James W. Blanks
Philo Coco

[19 ]

D. Boone Dawson
H. K. Gibbons
Carl E. L. Gill
Roy J. Grimley
B. F. Howard
Carlton E. Jewett
Alfred Levin

J}. Edward Moyler

Dean Owens
Fred C. Parks

R. Paul Sanford
William M. Tuck
R. C. Wood

1921-A

 

Agent—John L. Patterson
Amount

$225.00
240.00

Donors
1946 23
1947 22

 

Gayle G. Armstrong
Dr. John T. Bate

A. Milling Bernstein
Dr. Daniel Blain

Dr. John W. Bowyer
Albert D. Burk
Harry B. Burt

H. Gray Funkhouser
Dr. R. D. Garcin, Jr.
A. Merryman Gilbert
Homer E. Henderson
J. B. Hoke

R. G. Kelly

W. R. Knebelkamp
Frank Love

Lewis S. Musgrove
John L,. Patterson
Frank M. Pollock
Dr. Sam Raines
William J. Rushton
Elmer A. Stuck

Kk. L. Westbrooke

1922-L

 

Agent—R. Bleakley James

Donors Amount
1946 6 $50.00
1947 6 47.50

 

Edgar Jackson

R. Bleakley James
A. J. Lubliner
William E. Neblett
Joe L. Silverstein
G. W. Taliaferro

1922-A

 

Agent—Troy C. Musselwhite

Donors Amount
1946 27 $385.00
1947 20 360.00

 

Dr. Andrew E. Amick
Robert M. Bear
B. J. Broach

——E - ———ae

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Guy Campbell

James A. Cranford
Garland Gray

M. C. G. Henderson
Verbon E. Kemp
James P. Madison
James P. Mattox
William F. McCann
Charles H. Miller
Troy C. Musselwhite
J. Lindsay Patton

W. J. L. Patton

W. Frank Portlock
Dr. Dewey A. Reynolds
Dr. Bennett F. Roberts
Huston St. Clair

W. A. Williams

 

1923-L
Agent—Robert H. Carr
Donors Amount
1946 12 $85.00
1947 9 90.00

 

Robert H. Carr
Barron O. Faulconer
Cyrus W. Hall

H. A. Hall

George T. Holbrook
Roger B. Jones
Alfred L. McCarthy
J. G. Ragsdale
Robert B. Stuart

 

1923-A
Agent—George C. Mason
Donors Amount
1946 32 $342.50
1947 38 472.50

 

Edward Aull

G. E. Berson, Jr.
John D. T. Bold

Dr. John H. Bonner
Edwin D. Bozeman
Clyde H. Braden
Everett W. Cummings
H. R. Dillon

T. J. Ellis

R. Maurice Frew

J. B. Gordon

G. E. Harris

Fred C. Henritze
Frank B. Hurt
Clarence W. Hussey, Jr.
William C. Kern
Weldon T. Kilmon

A. J. Lester

Joseph R. Long, Jr.
William W. Lynn, Jr.
George C. Mason
David H. Matson
Oliver W. McClintock
J. W. McDonald

QO. Forrest McGill
French R. McKnight
J. Vaughn Penn

Douglas S. Perry

A. W. Quarrier

F. L. Sattes

D. Raymond Snively
Charles H. Spindler
Charles H. Thompson
H. K. Tramell, Jr.
T. M. Wade

Frank L. Wall

Dr. Roscoe R. White
J. W. C. Wright, Jr.

 

1924-L
Agent—J. Melvin Lovelace
Donors Amount
1946 15 $236.00
1947 12 87.50

 

Charles A. Cohen
W. Clyde Dennis
Thomas P. Duncan
John W. Greene

J. Melvin Lovelace
B. L. Malone

M. P. Matheney
Thomas E. Schneider
Walter H. Scott
Harry L. Shuey
Louis H. Towbes
Rk. G. Whittle

Charles S. Stone

John N. Thomas
Norfleet Turner

John E. Wells

John Higgins Williams

 

1925-L
Agent—Luther L. Copley
Donors Amount
1946 8 $ 70.00
1947 12 120.00

 

M. F. Baugher
Sam Bucholtz
George T. Clark
Luther L. Copley
Herbert M. Gould
Alfred H. Griffith
Clarence E. Hinkle
W. A. McRitchie
D. O. Mitchell
John C. Morrison
John S. Strahorn
George $S. Wilson, Jr.

 

1925-A
Agent—V. J. Kreienbaum
Donors Amount
1946 35 $465.50
1947 35 525.00

 

1926-L
Agent—Earle A. Cadmus
Donors Amount
1946 6 $50.00
1947 6 32.50

 

William Hill Brown
Earle A. Cadmus
W. Randolph Cosby
Ralph Masinter
Andrew A. Payne
Earl L. Valentine

 

1926-A
Agent—Carl B. Knight
Donors Amount
1946 43 $391.00
1947 32 270.50

 

 

1924-A
Agent—Howard D. Leake
Donors Amount
1946 38 $447.57
1947 35 532.00

 

James L. Allgood
EK. Almer Ames
James A. Browne
E. M. Cameron
Thomas Henry Clay
Dr. John T. Collins
Dennis B. Edwards
Frederick L. Engels
Walter A. Flick
George W. Fooshe
William S. Gay
Edward D. Gibson
Edwin J. Gibson
John G. Guerrant
William Hellier
John F. Hendon
Otis W. Howe
Henry W. Jones

W. P. Kirkman
Howard D. Leake
Stuart A. MacCorkle
William C. McKnight
Dr. Joe S. McMath
R. Turner Merritt

P. W. Peden
Charles H. Phillips
Francis W. Plowma1:
J. F. Riley, Jr.
Barrett C. Shelton
Horace O. Shropshire

C. T. Altfather

R. F. Bolling, Jr.

W. E. Brock

EK. W. Brown

Dr. C. T. Burton

Dr. R. L. Claterbaugh
Ollinger Crenshaw
W. J. Driver

Charles L. Gaines, Jr.
Bruce F. Gannaway
R. F. Goodrich
Charles S. Heilig
Joseph M. Holt
Philip F. Howerton
Marvin F. Hummer
Perry D. Hunter
Murrel D. Klein

V. J. Kreienbaum
Maurice C. Langhorne
H. F. McMillan
William B. Mack

Earl S. Mattingly

W. Carroll Mead
Frank T. Mitchell

Dr. Herbert Pollack
Walter G. Putney

C. W. Rex

H. Edward Rietze, Jr.
W. M. Roach
William A. Robertson
Allen Rushton
Greenberry Simmons
Roy C. Slack*
Harold St. John

Dr. William L. Woolfolk

[ 20 |

E. G. Barker

J. L. Brown

Nelson W. Burris

W. W. Conner

Ralph I. Daves
William W. Davis
Fred W. Dismuke

Lee O. Fagan

k.dward Felsenthal
Thomas P. Foley
Rufus A. Fulton

John B. Funk

George L. Hill
Kenneth C. Kimbrough
Carl B. Knight

Dr. Henry Lee
Richard W. Livingston
Dr. Charles W. Lowry, Jr.
Malcolm H. MacBryde
Emmett W. MacCorkle
William R. Marchman
John T. Martin
Edward Matz

Clarence W. Meadows
Eugene A. Nabors

Dr. Thomas R. Nichols
P. M. Schuchart

James R. Thames

D. C. West

Dr. Louis E. Wice
George B. Wilkinson
W. Burke Williamson

 

1927-L
Agent—L. Storey Stemmoas
Donors Amount
1946 10 $80.00
1947 11 90.00

 

Marion L. Bergman
Thomas A. Graves
Robert H. Jones
George F. Maynard
Kuclin D. Reeves
Charles T. Smith

L. Storey Stemmons

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John O. Strickler
George D. Varney
G. Carlton Walters
Rhea Whitley

 

1927-A
Agent—George E. Burks
Donors Amount
1946 35 $437.50
1947 47 612.00

 

Richard S. Barnett
Joseph E. Birnie
LaRue Bowker

Leigh D. Bullock
Maurice W. Butler
George E. Burks
Charles Luther Claunch
Garland T. Davis

John H. Dawson
Kenneth A. Durham
George T. Ellis

Robert T. Foree
William E. Gage*

Dr. Isadore Ginsburg
Allen Harris, Jr.

Dr. Thomas L. Harris
Fanning M. Hearon
Zeb H. Herndon

Henry A. Ingalls
Thomas D. Jefferson
Wilmot H. Kidd

Joe L. Lanier

Eldon K. Lewis

Alma Z. Litz, Jr.

J. T. Lowe

Samuel A. McCain
Marvin E. Newbern, Jr.
Roy G. Nichols
Claggett Offutt

Wilson A. Orr

Joe W. Pitts

William M. Pope

Louis J. Rauber

Luther H. Redcay

Zack B. Rogers

R. Wilbur Simmons
Thomas P. Stearns
Harold R. Sullivan
George W. Summerson
Robert Taylor

Dr. Pendleton Tompkins
Cooper Turner, Jr.
Charles Edgar Van Horn
Dr. Herbert W. Virgin, Jr.
David H. Wice

James C. Wilbourn
William Lyne Wilson

 

1928-L
Agent—Norman R. Crozier
Donors Amount
1946 7 $145.00
1947 8 192.50

 

T. B. Bryant, Jr.

George Oldham Clarke
Norman R. Crozier
Irvin W. Cubine

Paul E. Daugherty

R. W. Jordan

John L. Lancaster
John D. McHugh
William P. Woodley

1928-A

 

Agent—J. Davis Reed, Jr.

Donors Amount
1946 24 $250.00
1947 27 380.00

 

J. W. Alderson
Walter D. Bach

Dr. Lester A. Brown
Bern K. Bullard, Jr.
H. Harris Butler
Percy Cohen

G. Waldo Dunnington
Virgil A. Fisher
Wilton M. Garrison
Wilmot L. Harris
Garland H. Hayes
Gerald F. Horine
Harry Reed Johnston
Stephen F. Jones
Charles H. Lindfors
W. J. Luria

Dr. John G. McClure
W. C. Magruder, Jr.
Edward H. Miller
Dr. Harry B. Neel
William C. Norman
Andrew W. Pierpont
J. Davis Reed, Jr.
Frontis W. Sherrill
Dr. John M. Spence, Jr.
Philip D. Sprouse
Stuard A. Wurzburger

1929-L

 

Agent—M. M. Heuser

Donors Amount
1946 6 $35.00
1947 4 25.00

 

Philip R. Becker

M. M. Heuser
Samuel J. Thompson
John Bell Towill

 

1929-A
Agent—Walter H. Wilcox
Donors Amount
1946 62 $697.57
1947 57 770.66

 

Robert S. Bacon
W. J. D. Bell, Jr.
Julius G. Berry
Albert Peyton Bush
Richard D. Carver

James A. Castner

Ben C. Eastwood
Hugh D. Ebert

Earl A. Fitzpatrick

Ek. Lee Gamble

W. W. Glass, III
Norman E. Hawes
H. H. Hellriegel
William M. Hinton
William B. Jacobs
Henry P. Johnston
Alfred C. Junkin

D. T. Kimbrough, Jr.
George H. Lanier, Jr.
W. W. La Pietra
Robert B. Lee

Robert Edward Lee
John Edward Lewis
Joseph L. Lockett, Jr.
Graham N. Lowdon
A. L. McCardell, Jr.
W. A. MacDonough
Edwin F. Madison
John W. Malone
Charles D. Mercke
Allen Benners Morgan
Harry H. Newberry
Francis T. Parker
Lewis F. Powell
Fred C. Proctor
Harry C. Rand

James Landon Rule
Karnest E. Sanders
Irwin T. Sanders
Alfred I. Schlossberg
Arnold A. Schlossberg
James C. Shackelford
James M. Sherwood
Arthur D. Simmons
Dr. O. Norris Smith
Thomas J. Sugrue
Dr. James W. Tankard
Dr. John A. Tolley
William C. Watson
W. C. P. Weaver

P. C. Whitlock
Walter H. Wilcox, Jr.
Dr. Robert H. Williams
Clyde H. Wilson
George M. Wright, Jr.
Thomas Perrin Wright
Bernard Yoepp, Jr.

1930-L

 

Agent—E. I. Bostwick

Donors Amount
1946 7 $40.00
1947 7 47.50

 

1930-A
Agent—Kenneth L. Keil
Donors Amount
1946 49 $417.00
1947 37 426.50

 

Julian H. Black

L. P. Brown, III
Henry F. Bullard
Robert Earle Clapp
Dr. George B. Craddock
Milton J. Dattel

James W. Davis

R. W. Davis, Jr.

Frank O. Evans
Frederick W. Fesenmyer
I. L. Flory, Jr.
Howerton Gowen

G. E. Grashorn
Edward S. Graves

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton
Abbott A. Harman
William H. Hawkins
James N. Hess
Herbert G. Jahncke

Dr. Murrell H. Kaplan
Kenneth L. Keil

C. E. Kennemer, Jr.
Harry C. Lawder, III
M. Philo Lindsey

Dr. C. E. Lorenz

Dr. John P. Lynch
Robert V. May

James B. Merrick
Hugh Graham Morison
Russell O. Morrow
Robert W. Mosley
John H. Nelson

S. R. Nichols

J. Arlington Painter
Mosby G. Perrow, Jr.
A. L. Roberson

Merle Suter

 

1931-L
Agent—John Charles Smith
Donors Amount
1946 6 $80.00
1947 6 95.00

 

Horace Gooch, Jr.
Walter E. Hoffman
James B. Martin
John C. Smith
Robert J. Thrift
Manuel M. Weinberg

1931-A

 

 

Edgar I. Bostwick
Leonard H. Davis
Hubert L. Echols
Morton E. Padgett, Jr.
B. L. Rawlins

F. L. Shipman
Thomas D. Shumate

[21]

Agent—Paul A. Hornor

Donors Amount
1946 50 $694.50
1947 4] 625.57

 

James H. Alexander
Ben M. Ayars

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. P. Ballard
Frederick M. Barron
Dr. Leonard C. Borland
Watson A. Bowes
Frank T. Bready
Sidney W. Clay
Harris J. Cox

M. R. Crocker

John M. Dean

Dr. John W. Devine, Jr.
John G. Faulkner, Jr.
M. L. Glover
Chandler W. Gordon
Dr. Huger T. Hall
Paul A. Hornor
I,ugene Johnson
George Junkin

T. C. Lancaster

Jack C. Lovelace
James L. Lytle, Jr.
George M. Lupton
Dr. John O. McNeel
John Kell Martin, Jr.
Samuel A. Milliner, Jr.
Lloyd A. Myers, Jr.
John W. Myrose
Gilmore N. Nunn, Jr.
Binford E. Parker

Dr. Reno R. Porter
John T. Raymond

W. V. Rucker

Stuart Sanders, II
Daniel Sherby

George H. Snyder, Jr.
John M. Stemmons
Phillip L. Thomas

Dr. Alexander Vance
John Alexander Veech
Dr. Walter F. Williams

 

1932-L
Agent—H. Breckenridge
Heaps*
Donors Amount
1946 1] $105.00
1947 9 72.50

 

Martin P. Burks, III
Lyman C. Harrel, Jr.
H. Breckenridge Heaps*
Paul A. Holstein
Rosser L. Malone
Albert G. Peery

James D. Sparks
George A. Speer
Charles A. Wood, Jr.

 

1932-A
Agent—William C. Mulligan
Donors Amount
1946 37 $462.00
1947 33 364.00

 

Morris W. Adelson
C. Edmonds Allen
John W. Ball

Frank H. Brady

Frank H. Cunningham
Charles H. Davidson
Eli Fink

John Goadby Hamilton
Thomas W. Hancock
Collas G. Harris

John Clinton Harris
Horace A. Hartgrove
Robert K. Hoadley
William D. Hoyt, Jr.
W. Kemper Jennings
Judson S. Jones
William C. Kimbrell
James E. Leslie
Charles E. Long, Jr.
R. L. McKinney

Dr. James W. McLaurin
Dr. George W. Morse
William C. Mulligan
David G. Price

R. W. Reinhold
Charles F. Richardson
Dr. Ran T. Shields, Jr.
James W. Smither, Jr.
Dr. Jack J. Stark

John S. Teggart
Edward C. Tonsmeire, Jr.
Haven Walton
Sherwood W. Wise

 

1933-L
Agent—J. Hoge Tyler, III
Donors Amount
1946 6 $55.00
1947 7 80.00

 

Copeland E. Adams
D. K. Crawford
John L. Ericson
Jerome J. Framptom
Henry Cavett Robert

 

W. F. Stone
J. Hoge Tyler, III
1933-A
Agent—Luther F. Violett
Donors Amount
1946 51 $436.00
1947 46 388.00

 

Harold B. Abramson
Henry F. Arnold
Eawin H. Bacon
Joe F. Bear

T. Deale Blanchard
William J. Brooks, Jr.
Frank E. Calhoun
Howard D. Carver
Edwin W. Chittum
J. Fred Cook

John D. Copenhaver
M. Hoge Crighton
John A. Culley
Theodore M. Curtis
Jeb S. Darby, Jr.

Dr. W. Todd DeVan
Richard K. Eddy
Richard T. Edwards
Burton A. Farber
Henry D. Foote, Jr.
Loring M. Garrison
John Griffiths, Jr.
Eben Jackson

Charles Robert Kaplan
H. Arthur Lamar
Claude LaVarre

Ernest F. Leathem, Jr.
Julian A. Levy

R. G. Livengood
Charles J. Longacre
Ernest L. McLellan
William F. Methvin, Jr.
Tom White Moore

,. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.
Simon M. Painter
Kdmund B. Rannells, Jr.
J. Rucker Ryland

Ira H. Samelson

Dr. Robert Ragsdale Smith
George L. Stout

W. F. Symonds

Carl B. Vickers

Luther F. Violett

John F. Watlington
William H. H. Wertz
Allen H. Wofford

 

1934-L
Agent—Thornton G. Berry
Donors Amount
1946 6 $ 85.00
1947 8 115.00

 

Thomas D. Anderson
Robert D. Bailey
Thornton G. Berry, Jr.
Layne H. Ford

Albert M. Fowler
Henry Taylor Jones

ky. Rodney Massie
Clarence S. Worrell

 

1934-A
Agent—Richard W. Grafton
Donors Amount
1946 30 $263.51
1947 33 296.50

 

Norwood E. Band
William W. Barron
Dr. John D. Battle
Robert L. Buffington
Ruge P. DeVan
Walter J. Dixon
Robert C. Dyer
Joseph M. Friedman
Fred O. Funkhouser
Richard W. Grafton
John A. Hanley
Walter C. Johnston
Jesse C. Leigh, Jr.

| 22 |

Louis F. Lubrecht

Olin K. Miller

William J. Moran

Joseph Carl Muller
Farrar Newberry

Foster M. Palmer

Neil C. Pascoe

Harvey Pride

Herbert Rudlin

Dr. Clifford A. Sauerbrun
Wm. R. Schildknecht
Robert Bruce Shively

G. Jefferds Stephens

John H. Thomas

Everett Tucker, Jr.
Joseph Walker, Jr.

W. Charles Walkinshaw
Carlton Victor Ware, Jr.
Thomas S. Wheelwright, Jr.
Samuel A. Woolford

 

1935-L
Agent—E. Marshall Nuckols
Donors Amount
1946 10 $72.00
1947 4 15.00

 

Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr.
Karly Colman Clements
I. Marshall Nuckols
Thomas E. Sparks

 

1935-A
Agent—William Schuhle
Donors Amount
1946 30 $268.50
1947 28 200.50

 

Craig H. Berry
Joseph A. Clemmer
Robert F. Cooper, Jr.
M. R. Dunaj

Norman §. Fitzhugh, Jr.
Chas. Harrison Fitzwilson, Jr.
James M. Franklin
William B. Gabb
George R. Glynn

Jay G. Henthorne

W. Wilson King

Dr. Sidney Lyons
Gilbert C. McKown
Robert R. Miller

Gus Morgan

Thomas A. Morris, Jr.
Henry L. Ravenhorst
Harry M. Rhett, Jr.
William Schuhle
Charles C. Smith
Winthrope C. Smith
William R. Sphar, Jr.
John D. Spohr
Frederick deR. Strong
Donald R. Wallis

Dr. E. Lloyd Watkins
James H. White
James $. Woods, Jr.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1936-L

 

Agent—Hugh D. McNew

Donors Amount
1946 3 $15.00
1947 3 15.00

 

Samuel M. Greenwood, III
George W. Hohanness
Hugh D. McNew

1936-A

 

Agent—Kenneth P. Lane

Donors Amount
1946 29 $250.85
1947 22 295.50

 

Hugh J. Bonino
Edward §$. Boze, Jr.
Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr.
Duncan Corbett

W. Magruder Drake
Albert J. Durante, Jr.
John Godolphin Fry, Jr.
Joseph J. Harding, Jr.
Paul G. Hervey
Milton A. Honig
Kenneth P. Lane
sruce N. Lanier

John D. Locke
Charles J. Mower

Kk. Angus Powell
James L. Price, Jr.
James A. Robertson
Richard T. Scully

I. Glenn Shively

Dr. Herbert E. Sloan
Charles A. Sweet, Jr.
James M. White

1937- L

 

Agent—Edwin M. Marks

Donors Amount
1946 14 $117.50
1947 10 137.50

 

James P. Baker
Wally C. Bernard
James A. Blalock
Amos Bolen

Stanley C. Higgins, Jr.
James A. McClure, Jr.
Edwin M. Marks
Harry T. Moreland

I. M. Scott

[.dward E. Stover

1937-A

 

Agent—Robert M. Peek, Jr.

Donors Amount
1946 49 $517.00
1947 42 356.50

 

Lynne M. Atmar
Horace L. Bachelder

Ernest C. Barrett, Jr.
P. Duane Berry

John H. Bosman
Charles A. Butterworth, Jr.
Landon V. Butler
Eugene G. Clayton
Francis D. Crew
Emerson Dickman, Jr.
Kenneth G. Dustin
William C. Dwiggins
Paul Fish

Robert E. Graham
Randolph Van Lew Hall
Robert C. Hoff
Norman P. Iler

Sidney Kirsch

Horace Z. Kramer
Walter G. Lehr
George W. Lowry
Albert Lustbader
Harold C. Magoon

C. Arnold Matthews
Robert M. Peek, Jr.
Jack B. Pierce
Theodore M. Plowden
Robert R. Radcliff
Lamar C. Rau

Kelley E. Reed, Jr.
Maurice Cowl Rider
Howell W. Roberts
Parke S. Rouse, Jr.

sen E. Schull

Philip Weinsier
William C. Wilbur, Jr.
Frank J. Williams, Jr.
Fillmore G. Wilson
Laurence W. Wilson, Jr.
Clark B. Winter
Alfred H. Wishnew
Frank Henry Yaffe

 

1938-L
Agent—Frank L. Price
Donors Amount
1946 7 $ 52.50
1947 14 107.00

 

Cyrus Victor Anderson
Albert O. Burks
Thomas Hal Clarke
Joseph T. Drake, Jr.

C. William Karraker, Jr.
Leonard Leight

Fletcher F. Maynard
Henry Thomas Merritt
Waldo G. Miles

Frank Lieb Price
Austin James Rittenhouse
John Burton Simmons
William L. Wilson
Anonymous

 

1938-A
Agent—Charles R. Skinner
Donors Amount
1946 32 $375.60
1947 37 336.00

 

Arthur H. Alexander
Robert M. Basile

C. Price Berryman
Charles P. Blackledge
Dr. A. Compton Broders, Jr.
John M. Capito

Dr. Martin C. Cassett
Charles F. Clarke, Jr.
Herbert C. Clendening
Thomas B. Cottingham
G. Newton Cox
William H. Daniel
Oscar Jerome Deavours
John O. Gluyas

William H. Hillier
Robert W. Hilton, Jr.
George S. Kemp, Jr.
Gerald M. Lively

Sam P. McChesney, Jr.
Gilbert S. Meem

Paul M. Miller

Fred M. Moran

A. Milton Morrison
John E. Neill

Thomas C. L. Nugent, Jr.
John G. Ostertag
Harry M. Philpott
James Hiram Smith
Charles Rufus Skinner
W. Saxby Tavel
Calvert Thomas

Kk. Sidney Vaughn, Jr.
Paul P. Whipp

Chester P. White
Robert M. White, II

A. Murat Willis, Jr.
William E. Wiltshire, Jr.

1939-L

 

Agent—Williaam W. Perkins

Donors Amount
1946 7 $30.00
1947 6 25.00

 

Philip M. Grabill
Richard L. Howell
Joseph C. Murphy
William W. Perkins
Edgar Lewis Smith
G. W. Swift, Jr.

 

1939-A
Agent—Chas. H. Semple, Jr.
Donors Amount
1946 51 $405.00
1947 47 404.50

 

Arthur W. Archer, Jr.
William Henry Baldock
Edgar A. Basse, Jr.
Thomas W. Bradley, Jr.
Robert A. Brower
Thomas R. Bryant
Thomas W. Christopher
Joseph S$. Crowder
John J. Davis, Jr.

[ 23 |

John Lillard Davis
Addison Dimmitt
Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr.
Warren H. Edwards
James Wilson Fishel
Sherwin B. French
John B. Furr

Charles G. Gilmore
Charles L. Guthrie, Jr.
Frank M. Hankins, Jr.
Waller Cecil Hardy, Jr.
Garret Hiers, Jr.
William Roy Hogan, Jr.
Henry Ruffin Horne
Donald B. Houghton
William A. Jenks
Christoph Keller, Jr.
James G. Lamb, Jr.
John R. LeBus
William L. Leopold
Charles P. Lykes

John S. Mehler

Robert E. Milligan, Jr.
Thomas W. Moses
Arthur W. Meyer
Frank B. O’Conner
James C. Paera

Roland R. Remmel
Randolph D. Rouse
James A. Saltsman, Jr.
Charles H. Semple, Jr.
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.
Herbert C. Sigvartsen
Asa Rogers Sphar
Maurice John Swan, Jr.
Elton H. Thuran

A. H. Turpin, Jr.

Philip K. Yonge

1940-L

 

Agent—Harry R. Stephenson

Donors Amount
1946 4 $30.00
1947 7 80.00

 

Horace W. Bittenbender
William S. Burns

Edwin J. Foltz

Oswald B. McEwan
Leslie D. Price

Stanford L. Schewel
Harry Roberts Stephenson

1940-A

 

Agent—Richard W. Boisseau

Donors Amount
1946 41 $301.00
1947 45 515.58

 

Jackson G. Akin

Billy V. Ayers

Harry H. Benner
Joseph A. Billingsley, Jr.
Charles Terry Blandford
A. Lea Booth

Richard W. Boisseau

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Reid Brodie, Jr.

Thomas FE. Bruce, Jr.
Donald G. Buck

William E. Buxton
Charles C. Curl, Jr.
Robert A. Dementi
Hamilton G. Disbrow, Jr.
Theodore Donaldson
Brent H. Farber, Jr.
James P. Fristoe

Gilbert Gardner

Herbert K. Garges, Jr.
George M. Grasty

James W. Hammett
Eugene M. Kramer
Lorenzo C. Lewis
Sydney Lewis

Mervin H. Luria

Arthur W. Mann, Jr.
Andrew Maurice Moore
Dr. Guy C. Oswalt

Louis F. Plummer
Arthur Reno Porter, Jr.
Percy Ashton Seaton, Jr.
Howard T. Shepherd
Harry B. Stoddart
Samuel J. Sublette, Jr.
Charles O. Turner

C. Ganahl Walker, Jr.
William Blakey Walker, Jr.
William C. Washburn
John Winn Watson

Hal B. Watterson
William E. Whaley, Jr.
James H. Willis

Alonzo McKee Wing, III
Ernest Woodward, II
Latimer G. Young

 

1941-L
Agent—Peter S. Barrow
Donors Amount
1946 12 $95.00
1947 8 77.50

 

Peter S. Barrow
Frederick Bartenstein, Jr.
Frank C. Bedinger
Haskell T. Dickinson
Charles F. Heiner

Louie A. Paterno

John Edward Perry
Allen T. Snyder

 

1941-A
Agent—H. Thomas Martin
Donors Amount
1946 52 $426.50
1947 50 520.00

 

Benjamin F. Ashcroft
Bayard S. Berghaus

Hugh R. Best

Alfred T. Bishop, Jr.
Robert S. Boyce*

Thomas W. Brockenbrough

Thomas C. Buford

E. Eugene Chamness
George Hunt Collins
George R. Day

John D. Durham

Chester Eccleston

Ernest V. Echols

George W. Faison

Alvin T. Fleishman

Jean S. Friedberg

N. Charlton Gilbert
William L. Heartwell, Jr.
James C. Hernandez
Richard M. Herndon
Charles L. Hobson
Robert M. Jeter, Jr.
William Joseph Keeler
George B. Kerr

Ff. Sydnor Kirkpatrick
Fritz K. Knust

Robert E. Lee

Ralph E. Lehr

Dr. William Joseph Longan
Henry T. Martin

Richard A. Mehler

James F. Norton

Robert C. Peery

John Thomas Perry, Jr.
James H. Price, Jr.
Henry B. Quekemeyer
H. Richard Sandstrom, Jr.
Bertram R. Schewel
William L. Schultheis
Eugene D. Seraphine
Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.
Harry Lucian Smith
William C. Soule

Donald C. Taggart
Charles G. Thalhimer
Kenneth B. Van de Water
Carl L. Varner

Benton M. Wakefield, Jr.
Claude Moore Walker
Herbert M. Woodward, Jr.

 

1942-L
Agent—Robert C. Hobson
Donors Amount
1946 5 $30.00
1947 8 33.50

 

Charles F. Bagley, Jr.
Robert C. Hobson
Robert G. Isgrigg

Jack Keith

E. Austin McCaskill, Jr.
William Micajah Martin
Edmund Schaefer, III
Oliver H. Ward, Jr.

 

1942-A
Agent—Harold R. Levy
Donors Amount
1946 77 $653.00
1947 53 420.00

 

Dr. John M. Atwood
Colin T. Baxter

Adrian L,. Bendheim, Jr.
George M. Brooke, Jr.
Ned H. Brower
Preston R. Brown
Richard F. Burke, III
Robert F. Campbell, Jr.
Kkdward C. Crook
William John Daniel
Walter G. Downie

R. Wallace Ebe, Jr.
Charlton T. Fuller
Robert D. Gage, III
John W. Garrow

Louis C. Greentree
Jackson A. Hauslein
Alex M. Hitz, Jr.
Douglas Wayne House*
Dr. Sidney Isenberg
Benjamin E. Jasper
Horace H. Jeter
Arthur Burke Koontz, Jr.*
Kdward M. Korry
Frank L. La Motte

Dr. Andrew S. Lanier
Dr. Michael W. Lau
Beverley W. Lee, Jr.
Harold R. Levy

Daniel C. Lewis, Jr.
Walter L. Monroe

R. D. McGill

John Henry McMillan
Lee D. Parker

Dr. Robert L. Pinck
Frederick H. Pitzer

P. G. Rembert

Green Rives, Jr.

Robert W. Root
Edmund A. Samara
Robert P. Schellenberg
Whitt N. Schultz
Ralph H. Stewart
Richard Hill Turner, III
Robert T. Vaughan
Robert C. Walker
Robert F. Wersel
Philip A. Wilhite, Jr.
Robert L. Wilson

Dr. Alfred Louis Wolfe
Leon Worms, Jr.

Dr. Henry M. Yonge
Paul R. Zumkeller

1943

Agent—Albert D. Darby, Jr.

Donors Amount
1946 78 $660.50
1947 65 512.50

 

Donald H. Adams
Frederick M. Allen
William H. Armstrong
Richard E. Basile
Frank R. Bell, Jr.
James F. Berry
Calhoun Bond

[ 24 |

J. Tyler Bowie

Robert B. Brainard, Jr.
Walter R. Browder

A. L. Cahn

Ralph I. Cohen

A. B. Conley, Jr.

Jay D. Cook, Jr.
Richard FE. Cooke
Albert D. Darby, Jr.
Malcolm A. Deans
Joseph F. Ellis, Jr.
Douglas F. Fleet, Jr.
Stanley R. Goldstein
Dr. Frank Gruesser
John B. Handy, Jr.
Hinman Brown Hawks
J. Morrison Hutcheson, Jr.
Dr. Conrad L,. Inman, Jr.
Krank N. Jarvis

James S$. Jefferson
Melvin Carl Johnson
S. L. Kopald, Jr.
Raymond G. Long
Robert F. MacCachran
James E. McCausland
John W. McGehee, Jr.
William C. McGraw
Alexander M. Maish
Fred T. Miller

Barton W. Morris, Jr.
Jack C. Murrell
Russell H. Neilson
Morrison Ray Nelson
William Joseph Noonan, Jr.
James S. Parsons
John Newton Peeples
George W. Priest
William K. Privett
Donald L. Richardson
I. V. Runyan

Melvin H. Schept
Charles C. Schock

Dr. Morrison U. Scott
Philip A. Sellers
William K. Sevier
Kenelm L. Shirk, Jr.
Jay A. Silverstein
William G. Sizemore
Ernest E. Smith
James S. Sutherland
Ralph S. Taggart
Arthur Thompson, Jr.
William A. Webster, Jr.
William J. Wilcox, Jr.
Thomas C. Wilson, Jr.
Herbert Henry Wolf, Jr.
M. Neely Young
Edwin A. Zelnicker, Jr.

 

1944
Agent—C. F. Johnson, Jr.
Donors Amount
1946 14 $ 92.50
1947 23 185.50

 

Alvin D. Aisenberg
Ernest L. Becker

(Turn to page 29)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Bicentennial Contributions Received

OLLOWING is the list of donors to the Bicentennial

lund who sent cash contributions prior to January
1, 1948. This does not include the considerable number
who have made promises for 1948 and 1949—some of
which have now been paid. In fairness to the class com-
petition for 1948, all checks dated since December have
been deferred for listing at the end of this year.

We have made such consolidations as were necessary
to avoid disclosing the amounts of individual contribu-
tions. Alumni and current students are shown by classes.
Gifts by parents and other friends, and by corporations
are in separate lists. Where it is known that an alumnus
is directly involved in a corporation gift, his name is given
under his class as a contributor, but the amount of the
gift is not included in the class total. Wives have been
listed only if they sent separate checks or when the gift

Dr. Gaines, in receiving the report that the Bicen-
tennial had passed the $900,000-mark at the beginning
of the year, said, ‘To every contributor and to every
committee member who has taken this task to his own, my
heart confesses a great debt and pays a sincere and happy
tribute. We are encouraged to believe that with this kind
of support we shall write a bright and promising chapter

in the story of Washington and Lee.”

 

GENERAL SUMMARY
Designations of Gifts

Endowment and Unrestricted
Memorial Scholarship Fund....
General Scholarship Fund........

Suildings

Prizes and Awalds........cc..cco.cc..-.

OPP Pe Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee

SERRE eee

COREE eee

SERRE!

$551,116.95
112,644.50
236,625.00
5,185.00
500.00

$906,071.45

 

 

was specifically marked as coming from “Mr. and Mrs.” OUR tie s,s eo ric th Seaman oo ON aa ot A

The absence of many names to be expected in the Sources of Gifts
rab rraioy ye ee Oe f that ‘nas rely é PE ARELIAES 2. «of cddhln Neha ehsesnieh Rinakeaedvububieis tdbdaciniads cat scecoikaibies $223,986.64
lists 1s explainec ’) oe act that up ey 1€ end Oo c SORth AIM APP IOM OBE Foch esis cbincs vcdtnnehionvias vaasccboacekc 187,136.00
cember a large majority of the alumni, parents Of StU- Corporations ...ccccccsccssesssessesssesseesseeseesssessesssessesssesseesueenes 118,173.00
dents and alumni, and other friends of the University had cee Occ cccccceccccvecceescccccececsccccecoscesscescocececccececoceceece 153,500.00
not been visited by Regional Chairmen and acuanitt ines ORES Hishecciqsch putea Muyianc basi aiee Deter tatacainidins eis idedbbties inne 223,275.81
men. RIL: Uiheaceutidanslist beet tases ae ateles <sssecyinicac Lie $906,071.45

. Randolph T. Shields, ’98 John A. Moore, ’05 C. T. Chenery
Alumni H. St. G. T. Carmichael, 99 FE. S. Shields, ’05 Wm. T. Delaplaine, Jr.
William T. Leffel, ’99 F. R. Crawford, ’06 David R. Dunham
1879-90 Scott M. Loftin, ’99 L. J. Desha, ’06 Charles S$. Glasgow

Donors 7 Amt. $1,076.00 James S. McCluer, ’99 John T. Harris, ’06 Ewing S. Humphreys

James Mullen, ’99

1900-’04
Donors 14 Amt. $6,910.00

John Randolph Tucker, ’00
John M. Corbett, ’01

Hale M. Houston, ’01

W. Dewey Cooke, ’02
Richard P. Daniel, ’02

J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02
Samuel Price, ’02

D. E. Witt, ’02

Robert T. Flanary, ’03

W. Cole Davis, ’04
Willard Neal Grubb, ’04
James William Harman, ’04
M. T. McClure, ’04

W. O. Wilson, ’04

1905-07
Donors 13 Amt. $4,545.00

Edmund S. Boice, ’05

William M. McElwee, ’79
John M. Glenn, ’79

John V. McCall, ’86

W. T. Armstrong, ’87

QO. S. Hawkins, ’88
Greenlee D. Letcher, ’88
F. M. Hudson, ’90

1893-99
Donors 18 Amt. $24,350.83

George Bolling Lee, ’93
Frank A. Nelson, ’93

C. J. Boppell, ’95

John W. Davis, ’95
Wm. McC. Martin, ’95
Lyne Starling Smith, ’95
H. H. Blackburn, ’96

C. Cabell Tutwiler, 96
Albert G. Jenkins, ’97
George C. Peery, ’97
Thomas H. Webb, ’97
W. Ross McCain, ’98

Milton Herman, ’06

F. A. Hollingsworth, ’06

T. Brannon Hubbard, ’06
Basil M. Manly, ’06

W. R. J. Dunn, ’07*

kK. Clyde Hoge, ’07

Robert Stuart Sanders, ’07

1908
Donors 7

Amt. $3,585.00

John M. Bierer
Irvin A. Downey
Lewis C. Gordon
John W. Lykes
Roberts C. Milling
Philip P. Page
Henry M. White

1909

Donors 12

L. J. Boxley
A. H. Chandler

Amt. $23,158.33

[ 25 |

Sorsby Jemison
Joseph T. Lykes
Sam R. Marks
W. S. Tutwiler
Elliott Vawter

1910
Donors 10 Amt. $17,532.50

Rayford W. Alley

R. W. Dickey
Russell L. Frink
Herbert E. Hannis
Hugh R. Hawthorne
Emory Landon
Walter McDonald
Minhard H. Myerson

I. A. Page
John H. Tucker
1911

Donors 14 Amt. $4,525.00

B. P. Ainsworth

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

James M. Barker, Jr.
Edward E. Brown, Sr.
Michael Brown
Henry W. Dew

F. P. Guthrie

Omer T. Kaylor

M. E. Kurth
William T. McLeod
Richard C. Overby
Herman A. Sacks
Luther G. Scott
Clarence H. Stein

C. W. Tharpe

1912
Donors 12

Amt. $6,225.00

Burton Deaver
Isadore Forman
Tom Glasgow

A. H. Hopkins
John A. Lancaster
A. G. Lively

Allan McDowell
Otho Shuford

John K. Speed
William L. Webster
Clayton E. Williams
Russell B. Wine

1913

Donors 18 Amt. $17,580.00

Beverley D. Causey
John L. Crist

Herman P. Davidson
H. F. Day

John Dillard
Benjamin F, Fiery
Carter Glass, Jr.
Thomas S. Kirkpatrick
Howard P. Macfarlane
Carl Carson Moore
Harry E. Moran

W. W. Rogers

S. C. Rose

Julian Schwartz
Alexander Sloan
Bland Terry

C. B. Wiltshire

Robert R. Witt

1914
Donors 21 Amt. $16,625.00

Henry N. Barker
David S. Bone

Jerry A. Burke
Buford S. Burks
Stephen F. Chadwick
L. Berkeley Cox
Kdward M. Craig, Jr.
Lewis T. Davis
William C. Eubank
Lee Grabill, Jr.
Claude R. Hill

Alex M. Hitz

Robert P. Hobson

J. Goodloe Jackson, Jr.

W. L. Lancaster
Samuel O. Laughlin, Jr.
Vann M. Matthews
Arthur W. McCain
John Scott Moore
Junius L. Powell
Samuel H. Williams

1915
Donors 15 Amt. $9,785.00
M. S. Barrow

Charles R. Beall
John G. Boatwright
Richard W. Fowlkes
Claiborne Gooch, Jr.
Leon W. Harris

W. A. Keleher
Rupert N. Latture
Philip A. Laughlin
Stuart Moore

K. L. Shirk

William H. Smith
Paul C. Thomas
Herman Ulmer

Carl C. Wurzbach

1916

Donors 11 Amt. $2,115.00

Charles R. Brown, Jr.
Clarence J. Brown

C. Lynch Christian
Robert P. Hawkins, Jr.
Cecil C. Holcombe

F. H. Jacobs

Clyde H. Miller
Samuel B. Moyle

F. Stanley Porter

H. Russell Robey

-Bruce F. Woodruff

1917
Donors 13

E. P. Barrow

H. J. Blackford
William O. Burtner
William Junkin Cox
Fred M. Davis

Joe! W. Flood
Frank J. Gilliam

R. Bruce Morrison
Charles W. McNitt
Herbert G. Peters, Jr.
Paul D. Pickens

M. B. Rogers

H. G. Smith

1918
Donors 10

J. B. Atkins

W. Kent Ford
Russell B. Goodwin
Fulton W. Hoge
Homer A. Holt
James L. Howe, Jr.
Sam E. Moreton, Jr.
M. W. Paxton

Amt. $4,600.00

Amt. $7,075.00

Thomas H. Pratt
Robert Serpell

1919

Donors 10 Amt. $1,187.00

Leonard T. Brown

T. Dewey Davis

J. R. Fain

Mason M. Hurd

John A. Johnston
Irving M. Lynn
Ralph EK. Moore

C. Houston Patterson
Clarence B. Robertson
Reid White, Jr.

1920
Donors 9 Amt. $14,710.00

M. R. Broudy
Homer S. Bryant

B. A. Davis, Jr.
John W. Drye, Jr.
Joseph M. Glickstein
C. H. McCain
Robert B. McDougle
Howard E. Nay
Russell G. Nesbitt

1921

Donors 11 Amt. $3,200.00

Henry Connelly
Fitzgerald Flournoy
L. Jackson Fox
Carl E. L. Gill
Roy J. Grimley
David D. Johnson
Kk. H. Long

J. Edward Moyler
Fred C. Parks

F. M. Pollock

R. Paul Sanford

1922

Donors 13 Amt. $2,037.95

Robert M. Bear

L. O. Chapman
Floyd J. Daughtrey
Louis S$. Joel

A. J. Lubliner

R. D. Maben, Jr.

L. W. Milbourne
Charles Henry Miller
W. Ashton Powell
Joseph L. Silverstein
Huston St. Clair

W. T. Tiller, Jr.
Newman M. Yielding

1923
Donors 11

Robert H. Carr
L,.. Douglas Danforth
Ward C. Elliott
Robert M. Frew
George T. Holbrook

Amt. $3,165.00

[ 26 |

G. Peabody Howard
C. W. Hussey, Jr.
Weldon T. Kilmon
A. J. Lester, Jr.
William W. Lynn, Jr.
Bert Richmond

1924
Donors 19 Amt. $3,184.60

I. W. Catterall, Jr.
Berry B. Brooks, Jr.
Walter A. Flick

Henry B. Gotten

John William Greene
John F. Hendon
Edwin H. Howard
Thomas F. Jackson, Jr.
Henry W. Jones

J. Melvin Lovelace
Isadore Pizitz

Davis L. Ragland, Jr.
T. Erwin Schneider
Horace Ogden Shropshire
John N. Thomas
Norfleet Turner

A. L. Tyree

C. H. Wilson

Gorman Wilson

1925
Donors 17 Amt. $3,255.00

William E. Brock, Jr.
Sam Bucholtz

John S. Caskie

R. L. Claterbaugh
Ollinger Crenshaw
William W. Elgin
Abe Goodman, Jr.
John M. Hocker
Vernon J. Kreienbaum
John O. Lewis

Karl S. Mattingly
W. Carroll Mead

D. O. Mitchell
Walter G. Putney
Allen Rushton
Harold D. St. John
William L. Woolfolk

1926
Donors 10

A. R. Coleman

Ralph I. Daves
Edward Felsenthal

R. A. Fulton

Walk C. Jones, Jr.
Kenneth Kimbrough
Thomas R. Nichols
Chas. Henry Pxiterson
Warren F. Tilson
George P. Wilkinson

1927
Donors 14

Amt. $1,400.00

Amt. $4,470.00

Joseph E. Birnie
George FE. Burks

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Charles L. Claunch
Garland T. Davis
Robert Effron
Rudolph Gleaton
Allen Harris, Jr.
Henry A. Ingalls, Jr.
A. Z. Litz, Jr.

Perry Moses, Jr.
Burchard S. Pruett
Euchlin D. Reeves
Thomas P. Stearns
George W. Summerson

1928
Donors 15 Amt. $2,575.00

Oldham Clarke
Joseph B. Copper
Frank R. Dupuy, Jr.
Henry Halle, Jr.
Carl V. Harris
Wilmot L. Harris
Thomas H. Johnson
Rhydon Latham
William J. Luria
William Clarence Norman
John D. Phillips
Howard Tayloe
Thomas F. Torrey
John H. Williams
W. P. Woodley

1929
Donors 14 Amt. $1,070.00

Robert S. Bacon
Philip R. Becker
William T. Black, Jr.
Kenneth A. Durham
Harry B. Fozzard
William M. Hinton
J. Edward Lewis

A. H. McLeod
Allen Morgan
Robert M. Pharr

J. Enoch Piersol
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
P. C. Whitlock
Finley M. Waddell

1930
Donors 11 Amt. $1,730.00

W. Preston Battle, Jr.
L. P. Brown, III
Henry F. Bullard
I. H. Fleming, Jr.
Arthur G. Glasgow
Edward §. Graves
Dawson Hall

Philo Lindsey
Robert W. Mosley
John H. Nelson
George B. Vermilya

1931
Donors 21 Amt. $8,517.50

William P. Ballard
Townsend M. Belser

Lawton M. Calhoun
Edgar M. Church

M. L. Glover
Horace Gooch, Jr.
Frank S$. Hanna
Walter E. Hoffman
George Junkin
Conrad B. Litz
George M. Lupton
Herbert B. Luria, III
George E. Mitchell, Jr.
John W. Myrose
Gilmore N. Nunn
Albert G. Peery
Mills B. Sanders
Stuart Sanders

Daniel Sherby

J. Hoge Tyler, III

L,. Alexander Vance

1932
Donors 16 Amt. $1,785.00

M. William Adelson
Robert M. Avent
William E. Cathey
Frank H. Cunningham
Eli H. Fink

John Goadby Hamilton
Lyman Harrell, Jr.
John G. Harris

H. N. Joyce

Jack G. Marks

John William McClure, Jr.
James S. Shields
Randolph T. Shields, Jr.
Jack J. Stark

B. R. Wilson, Jr.
Sherwood W. Wise

1933
Donors 11 Amt.$675.00

Copeland E. Adams
Albert O. Burks
John L. Ericson
H. D. Foote, Jr.
H. Arthur Lamar
John L. Mosby

J. Rucker Ryland
Ira Samelson
William F. Stone
Walter E. Vermilya
John A. Womeldorf

1934

Donors 7 Amt. $1,320.00

Thomas D. Anderson
Robert D. Bailey, Jr.
James E. Belser, Jr.
James A. Black
Joseph Friedman
Waldo G. Miles
Joseph Walker, Jr.

1935
Donors 7 Amt. $480.00

Edwin T. Coulbourne

James P. Jordan
William M. McDonald
Edwin M. Marks

Gus Morgan

Henry L. Ravenhorst
Gilbert Swink, Jr.

1936
Donors 11

C. Boyd Allen
Hugh J. Bonino
Edward S. Boze, Jr.
William Vance Brooks
J. Stewart Buxton
W. Magruder Drake
L. Leslie Helmer
Kenneth P. Lane

E. Angus Powell
James L. Price, Jr.
Edgar L. Schilo

Amt. $745.00

1937
Donors 11 Amt. $6,465.00
L. V. Butler

Eugene G. Clayton
Kenneth G. Dustin

Edgar D. Flynn, Jr.
Robert E. Graham
Randolph V. L. Hall
Walter G. Lehr, Jr.

Henry W. McLaughlin, Jr.
Donald C. Redfield

I. M. Scott
Philip Weinsier
1938

Donors 12

Amt. $2,233.00

George F. Bauer
James C. Beale, Jr.
A. C. Broders, Jr.
R. T. Daniel
William H. Daniel
O. K. Jones, Jr.
Albert A. Pollack
Langdon L. Skarda
Wilson F. Vellines
Robert C. Walker
A. Murat Willis, Jr.
William L. Wilson, Jr.

1939

Donors 8 Amt. $2,222.50

John Theodore Fey
William Jenks
Charles P. Lykes
Walter A. Page

John Hall Sherrill, Jr.
Allen T. Snyder
LeRoy A. Watson
Saul R. Weinsier

1940
Donors 10

John G. Alnutt
B. V. Ayers

Amt. $570.00

[ 27 |

C. E. Blair

William E. Buxton

James Shelby Dudley, Jr.
Robert B. Espy

Andrew M. Moore

M. A. Saunders, Jr.

D. S. Stuart
Oliver J. Taylor, Jr.
1941

Donors 12 Amt. $2,300.00

Thomas W. Brockenbrough
William Buchanan

G. Richard Day

N. Charlton Gilbert

F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick
Ralph E. Lehr

William Joseph Longan
Joseph T. Lykes, Jr.
Henry L. Roediger, Jr.
Lynell G. Skarda
Benton M. Wakefield, Jr.
Claude Moore Walker
Jonathan W. Warner

1942
Donors 11

Amt. $3,984.60

William L. Bruce
C. Thomas Fuller
Sidney Isenberg

S. L. Kopald, Jr.

W. Townes Lea

J. Allen Overton, Jr.
Howard B. Peabody, Jr.
Louis S. Rehr
Porcher G. Rembert
Charles L,. Robinson
Alfred L. Wolfe, Jr.

1943-’51
Donors 24 Amt. $2,016.83

Calhoun Bond, ’°43

Ralph Cohen, ’43

A. B. Conley, Jr., ’43
Douglas F. Fleet, Jr., ’43
Paul G. Ganas, ’43
Richard H. Shepard, °43
Jay A. Silverstein, ’43
Thompson C. Bowen, Jr., ’44
Clarence Johnson, Jr., ’44
William S. Latz, ’44
Robert H. Moore, Jr., ’44
Henry H. Schewel, ’44
John L. Crist, Jr., ’45
William A. Davidson, 45
Jack S. Sater, °45

Guy E. Yaste, Jr., ’45
George W. St. C. Moore, ’46
David W. Foerster, ’47
Wallace Reynolds, ’47
Frederick Sage, °47

Cash T. Skarda, ’47
Edgar D. Holladay, ’48
Edwin Gaines, ’51

John Chapman, ’51
Anonymous

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Adams, Lewis W. (F)
Alexander, Mrs. Louise H. (F)
Allen, B. C. (P)

Allen, Mrs. Dorothy F. (P)
Anderson, George B., Jr. (F)
Anonymous (P and F)
Andrews, Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. (P)
Avery, Horace (F)

Ball, Mrs. Edmund B. (F)
Ball, Edward (F)

Barclay, Miss Mary (F)
Barker, Morton D. (P)
Barrett, Mrs. E. C. (P)
Barrow, Edward R. (F)
Bassett, Roderick (F)
Bassett, Roscoe C. (P)

Battle, George Gordon (F)
Baxter, John F. (F)

Bean, William G. (P)

Belser, James E. (P)
Bendheim, Adrian L. (P)
Bennett, Wilmurt A. (P)
Berkeley, Edmund (F)
Bindon, Herbert J. (P)
Bloodworth, Mrs. Mary H. (F)
Boatwright, Mrs. John G. (P)
Bondurant, Mrs. W. T. (P)
Boyce, Howard D. (P)
Boykin, Sam M., Sr. (P)
Bradley, R. F. (P)

Bradshaw, Frank B. (P)
Broh, Mrs. Julius (F)
Brown, Mrs. Gertrude F. (F)
Brown, Mrs. Marshall L. (F)
Bultman, F. M. (F)

Burrow, A. K. (F)

Cagle, Mrs. Flossie S. (P)
Campbell, Stephen E. (P)
Carter, Mrs. F. A. (F)

Carter, Frank (P)

Chudleigh, Walter I. (P)
Cochran, Mrs. C. B. (P)
Cohen, Isadore (F)

Cole, Dr. Ernest (P)

Colonial Dames of America (F)
Converse, Paul D. (F)
Coulling, L. R. (P)

Crages, James H. (F)

Crist, Mrs. John L. (P)
Cronin, George D. (P)
Crosby, J. E. (F)
Crowninshield, Mrs. Francis B. (F)
Cullen, Robert (F)

Cummer, Mrs. Ninah M. H. (F)
Daniel, R. T. (P)

Dart, Julian L. (P)

Daves, Mrs. Ralph I. (P)
Davidson, Mrs. James McC. (P)
Drake, G. F. (F)

Dugger, Fowler (P)

Dunlap, Miss Lula S. (F)

du Pont, Mrs. Alfred I. (F)
Easley, Owen R. (P)
Eastman, Mrs. Jones (F)

Parents and Friends

Edwards, John H. (P)
Edwards, W. T. (F)

Ewing, Boyd R., Jr. (F)
Ewing, John D. (P)

Ezell, Dr. Stiles D., (F)
Farrand, George E. (F)
Felder, Mrs. Wilson N. (F)
Finley, Mrs. Lena J. (P)
Fish, Mrs. Kendall K. (F)
Ford, Brewster S. (F)

Ford, Mr. and Mrs. O. D. (F)
Ford, Thomas M. (P)
Frayser, Mrs. Benjamin H. (F)
Frazier, Mrs. Daisy F. (P)
Friedberg, H. (P)

Gadsden, Miss Ellinor P. (F)
Gaines, Francis P. (P)
Gerber, Max (F)

Gibbs, George W., Sr. (F)
Gill, Dr. E. G. (F)

Gilreath, E. S. (F)

Gooch, Claiborne W. (P)
Goodman, William Hardin (P)
Goodrich, Dr. H. A. (P)
Graham, Mrs. R. D. (P)
Greene, Mrs. George S. (P)
Grossman, M. S. (P)*
Hall, Mrs. Beverly B. (F)
Bay 35. a

Hall, Mrs. Florence J. (F)
Hannah, Lauriston H. (F)
Harris, Allen Sr. (P)
Harwood, Mrs. A. G., Jr. (P)
Hawkins, William W. (P)
Henderson, Edgar M. (P)
Hill, Miss Ruth M. C. (F)
Holland, Mrs. Ruth (P)
Holley, J. Kyle (P)
Holman, Wayne J., Jr. (F)
Howard, J. H. (F)

Howell, Mrs. Katherine M. (F)
Huffman, Mrs. Oscar C. (F)
Hutcheson, Robert F. (P)
Inman, Dr. Conrad L. (P)
Jackson, David H. (F)
Jackson, Felix W. (P)
Jarchow, Christian E. (P)
Jarvis, George H. (P)
Johnson, Raymon T. (F)
Johnston, Percy H. (F)
Jones, Harrison (F)

Jones, O. K. (P)

Jones, Mrs. Parke P. (P)
Jones, Robert H. (P)

Jones, Walk C. (P)

Jones, William Whitmore (F)
Juhan, Frank A. (F)
Keener, Bruce, Jr. (P)

Keim, Mrs. Mary C. (P)
Kelly, Mrs. Martha C. (P)
Kent, Fred H. (F)
Kloeppel, Robert, Sr. (F)
Koontz, Arthur B. (P)
Kopald, S. L., Sr. (P)

[ 28 ]

Lanier, Mrs. Charles D. (F)
Lauck, C. Harold (P)
Laughlin, Charles V. (F)
Laupheimer, Arthur H. (P)
Lederer, Henry A. Jr. (P)
Lehr, Walter G. (P)
Leyburn, James G. (F)
Light, Charles P., Jr. (F)
Lindsay, Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. (P)
Livengood, J. G. (P)
Lothery, Thomas E., Jr. (F)
Lovett, William R., (F)
Lowry, Mrs. D. M. (P)
Lupton, T. Cartter (F)
Lykes, Mrs. Zoe K. (F)
Lyons, Louis M. (P)
McCoy, M. S. (F)
McDowell, Charles R. (P)
McVitty, S. H. (F)

Main, Roger L. (F)
Mansfield, E. S. (F)

Marvin, Guy (F)

Matthews, Joseph R. (P)
Mendell, Lester (P)

Miller, Leo H. (P)
Mitchell, Dr. Howard L. (F)
Moger, Allen W. (F)
Mohn, John D. (P)
Morgan, Mrs. Leila A. (F)
Morton, William W. (F)
Munson, W. Donald (P)
Nelson, Miss Eveyln (F)
Newcomb, Everett W. (P)
Newman, Nathan (P)
Nichols, Howard G. (P)
Nichols, Dr. John B. (F)
Noble, Mrs. R. C. (P)
O’Reilly, Jas. H. (F)
Osborn, Frederick (F)
Parkinson, Colonel John (F)
Parr, H. G. (F)

Payne, S. Tilford (P)
Peacock, J. Craig (P)
Penick, Mrs. S$. Barksdale (I)
Perkins, Mrs. N. J. (P)
Petty, E. S. (F)

Powell, Albert L. (P)
Pressly, Dr. T. A. (P)

Price, James L. (P)

Purse, Mrs. R. P., Jr. (P)
Pusey, William W. (F)
Ragan, Allen E. (F)
Ravenhorst, Miss Albertina (F)
Reese, H. K. (F)

Reinartz, L. F. (P)
Reynolds, Mrs. Helen W. (P)
Ridenhour, Robert E., Jr. (P)
Robb, Dr. E. F. (P)

Robey, William T., Jr. (F)
Robinson, Barnett, (P)
Robinson, Herman (P)
Rockwell, Henry E. (P)
Rosenthal, Dr. S. H. (P)
Schewel, A. M. (P)

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Schewel, Ben (P)
Schewel, Isaac R. (P)
Schultz, Louis C. (P)
Schwalbe, Frank (F)
Scott, Mrs. Joan R. (F)
Sears, Dr. A. W. (F)
Shaivitz, Sol (P)
Sheridan, Leo G. (F)
Siler, James H. (F)
Silverstein, Henry M. (P)
Silverstein, Mrs. Sam (P)
Skarda, A. W. (P)
Snyder, Mrs. Mary L. (P)
Spratt, James W. (F)
Steelman, Mr. and Mrs. B. J. (P)
Stein, L. A. (F)

*Deceased

 

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Atlanta Milling Company

Brock Candy Company

Caskie Paper Company

F. M. Crump & Company

J. Ed Deaver & Sons

W. L. Foltz & Son

The Funkhouser Company

Great Southern Printing & Mfg. Co.
The Huger-Davidson-Sale Company
Imperial Coal Sales Company, Inc.
O. K. Jones Company, Inc.

Stevens, Kenneth P. (F)
Stieff, G. N. (P)

Stow, Marcellus H. (F)
Strang, S. B. (P)

Stickley, Mrs. Nancy Jones (F)
Swisher, Carl (F)

Thomson, Herbert B. (F)
Todd, W. Dwight (F)
Tompkins, Dr. E. P. (P)
Tucker, Mrs. Hortense R. (IF)
Tucker, Robert H. (F)
Turner, Charles W. (F)
Varner, Andrew B. (F)
Walker, Joseph (P)

Walker, Thomas F. (F)
Warren, Charles (F)

Corporations

David M. Lea & Company, Inc.
Robert E. Lee Hotel

Lexington Shoe Hospital

Lykes Brothers Steamship Company
Lynchburg Engraving Company
McCrum’s, Inc.

Memphis Publishing Company

J. J. Newberry Company

Rockbridge Motor Company, Inc.
Sanders Brothers Company

F. G. Smart Chevrolet Company
State-Planters Bank & Trust Company

Warren, C. K. (P)

Warner, Mr. and Mrs. H. D. (P)
Watson, Peyton (F)

Watterson, Mrs. Kyle B. (P)
Watts, Mr. and Mrs. James O. (P)
Watts, Olin E. (F)

Weddell, Alexander W. (F)*
Weinsier, Michael (P)

Wellford, Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. (P)
Williams, Mrs. Ben L., Jr. (F)
Winchester, Lee (F)

Wolfson, L. E. (F)

Woodruff, Harold R. (P)

Wright, J. W. (P)

Young, Homer T. (P)

Young, W. B., Jr. (P)

D. A. Stickell & Sons, Inc.

St. Joe Paper Company

Swink’s (Alton D. Swink)

Bland Terry Shoe Corporation

Texaco Super Service Station
(James H. Ruble)

Tolley’s Toggery

Times-World Corporation

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company

Everett Waddey Company

Wise & Waddell, Inc.

 

Report of the 194'7 Alumni Fund

Richard L. Duchossois

(Continued from page 24)

1945 Alan Bauer

 

Robert R. Giebel

William Bell Guthrie
Alexander M. Harman, J>.
John C. Hempel, Jr. 1946
Robert J. Hiltabrand 1947

Agent—Alumni Office

John J. Kelly, IIl

Donors Amount Pavid Lewis
16 $145.00 William S. Todd, Jr.
7 42.50 Albert Harold Woodruff

 

Clarence F. Johnson, Jr.
John P. Jordan

William R. Malloy

Dr. William M. Manger
Howard Bell Peabody
Walter Scott Pope

Don M. Casto, Jr.
William A. Davidson
William L. Doyle
Russell W. Ingham, Jr.
Willard F. Searle, Jr.

1947

Leonard Rex Criminale

1948

 

Agent—Alumni Office

Donors Amount
1946 2 $10.00
1947 5 sSatiine

 

1949

 

 

Donald H. Putnam Charles Henry Stone, III Donors
R. Bruce Quayle Joseph M. Zamoiski, III a 5
9 4

Byron Parmer Redman, Jr
Richard Rockwell

1946

Agent—Alumni Office

Amount 1946 al
$55.00 1947 2 $17.50
30.00

Agent—Alumni Office

Donors Amount

 

 

Everett H. Cannon

 

 

Charles E. Savedge
Henry H. Schewel
Lloyd H. Smith, Jr. 1946
Alex H. Walker 1947
James Edgar Withrow

Agent—Alumni Office

Donors Amount e
4 ae ee
6 31.00 McDonald Lee Stephens

Robert A. Worms

 

[ 29 ]

Samuel B. McIntyre

Dr. Charles C. Blackwell, Jr.

Honorary Alumnus
Arthur G. Glasgow

 

*Deceased

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1892

 

Judge John Mitchell
Woods served as Judge of
the 23rd judicial circuit of
West Virginia from 1913 un-
til 1923, and since that time
has resumed the general
practice of law, with offices
in the Kanawha Banking and
Trust Company Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

1893
Dr. Andrew H. Woods,

 

Let us remind you again that the material from which
these notes was compiled consists of letters received by
the class agents during last spring and summer and
from questionnaires returned by alumni during that
period. If the notes are not up-to-date, we would ap-
preciate any further information you can let us have. It
is especially important, now that an alumni directory
is being compiled, for publication during the Bicen-
tennial year, that you keep us posted as to changes of
address, occupation, etc.

1900
John M. Corbett is prac-
ticing law in Bay City,

Texas. He says that he and
his son, Duncan, ’36, often
talk of Washington and Lee
and agree that there is no
lovelier spot out of doors
than the campus there.

1901

Clarence C. Burns is a
member of the law firm of
Burns and Lively, Burns

 

 

after receiving his A. B. de-

gree from Washington and Lee in 1893, was graduated with
the M. D. degree from the University of Pennsylvania Medical
School in 1899. Was professor and head of Neurological de-
partment, Peking, China, Union Medical College. After the
close of World War I he had charge of the neurological de-
partment of the Rockefeller Medical College in Peking. He is
now in private consultation and practice at 1100 North Du-
buque Street, Lowa City, Lowa.

1894

M. H. Guerrant is in the citrus growing business in Uma-
tilla, Florida.

Walter McElreath is practicing law with offices at 1506-22
Marietta Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He is president of At-
lanta Federal Savings and Loan Association; Director and
General Counsel, Life Insurance Company of Georgia, and
was a member of the General Assembly of Georgia 1909-1912.

1896
H. H. Blackburn is a Coal Operator in Lewisburg, West
Virginia.
Dr. Harry Gilbert Reynolds, eye, ear, nose and throat
specialist, lives at 1507 Broadway, Paducah, Kentucky.
1897

David Harris Leake is an attorney with the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad, First National Bank Build-
ing, Richmond, Virginia.

var \ a

 

 

Building, Lebanon,  Vir-

ginia. His partner is Alonzo G. Lively, LL.B. 712.

1902

Osman E. Swartz is General Counsel of the United Car-
bon Company, Charleston, West Virginia, and is connected
with other mining and land interests.

1903

Henry C. Coe is teacher and assistant principal of Warren
County High School, Front Royal, Virginia.

1904

Max M. Brown is President and Chairman of the Board
of The State Exchange Bank, Lake City, Florida.

1905
Emerson W. Kelly is President of the Central Insurance
Agency, Bristol, Virginia.
1906
E. V. Hardway practiced law in Durant, Oklahoma, and
Dallas, Texas, for two years after graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee, and since that time has been in Houston, Texas,
with offices in the Bankers Mortgage Building.

1907

David H. Hill is Superintendent of under-water construc-
tion with Merritt, Chapman & Scott Construction Corpora-
tion at 17 Battery Place, New York. He was
in Lexington for Homecoming.

1908

  

 

 

1898 Mt Mi er
: . > | \ George E. Penn, Jr., is .
Richard Winston Holt, having served as a , firm of Tine aus Smith sen ae
Chief Accountant, Public School System of bu A : neys-at-law Kingsport Tenness 7 ieee
the District of Columbia from 1924 to 1945, is By : : tf teed tee es
now retired. Address: 3930 Connecticut = ey James M. O’Brien practiced law from 1908
Avenue N. W., Washington, D. C. ae) i , to 1912 at Roswell, New Mexico, and since
mem eres! | that time, at Los Angeles and Beverly Hills,
1899 rin || California. He is President of Beverly Hills
. ; Bar Association, President, Los Angeles
Dr. G. B. Capito, after graduation from ~ Mortgage Underwriters, Inc., and President,
Washington and Lee, received the M.A. and | = | | Clear Lake Park Water Company.
M.D. degrees from Columbia University in “jj Fea) ee
1903. He is practicing medicine in Charleston, Wn = j, / 1909
¥ je. ai : ; : > ° I gilt ‘ ;
West Virginia, with offices in the Professional : en H. Lester Hooker is Chairman of the State
suilding. He is President and Medical Di- sae — Corporation Commission of Virginia, Rich-
rector of the Kanawha Valley Hospital. wi au mond, Virginia.

  

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

S. Floyd Landreth practiced law in Hillsville, Virginia,
for a few months after graduation and then went to Galax,
Virginia, where he has been ever since that time. He is a
member of the Virginia State Senate.

Guyte P. McCord is practicing law and Clerk of the Su-
preme Court, Tallahassee, Florida.

1910

Hugh R. Hawthorne is a lawyer and corporation official
with offices at One Broadway, New York 4, New York. He
is Director, Vice-President, General Counsel, Pocahontas
Fuel Company, Incorporated and also of affiliated companies.

Grover C. Worrell is practicing law in Mullens, West Vir-
ginia, and is owner of Worrell’s Cut Rate and Electrical En-
gineer and Deisel Engineer.

1911

W. Dudley Rucker, unlike the large majority of the Law
Class of ’11, is Chief Engineer, Southern Railway Company.
His daughter holds an A.B. degree from George Washington
University and is now with the City Library in Washing-
ton, D.C.

James M. Barker, Jr., 6 Sixth Street, Bristol, Tennessee,
had a three weeks vacation this Spring in “enchanting Ber-
muda.”

1912

Frank P. Burton of Stuart, Patrick County, Virginia, took
the oath of office as a member of the Virginia State Senate
during the Legislature’s session at Williamsburg on February
7. Mr. Burton was the first Senator in 150 years to be sworn
ir. at the old House of Burgesses.

Byron L. Ballard is a member of the law firm of Shields,
Ballard, Jennings and Bishop, 1400 Olds Tower, Lansing 8,
Michigan; Director, Vice-President and General Counsel—
Michigan National Bank; Director and General Counsel—Mo-
tor Wheel Corporation and Duplex Truck Co., and General
Counsel—Reo Motors, Inc.

H. L. Crowgey is Manager of Ivanhoe Orchards, Emory,
Virginia.
1913

Beverley D. Causey is a corporation executive and farmer.
He spends his winters in St. Augustine, Florida, and his sum-
mers at his farm, “Elsing Green,” King William County, Vir-
ginia. His three sons and two sons-in-law were in the Service.

Robert B. Adams is Attorney-at-law and banker, Vice-
President and Trust Officer, Mountain Trust Bank, Roanoke,
Virginia. He practiced law in Roanoke from the time of gradu-
ation until 1930 when he became trust officer of the bank.

H. Wise Kelly is Attorney for Potomac Electric Power
Company, 10th and E Streets, Washington, D. C.

Ryland G. Craft lives in Gate City, Virginia. He is an auto-
mobile dealer, distributor and transporter of petroleum pro-
ducts, banker and farmer. He has served as Member of the
Virginia House of Delegates, 1922-1923; Member, Senate of
Virginia, 1928-1930; and Member, Virginia House of Dele-
gates, 1944-1948.

1914
Robert S. McClintock is president of W. S. McClintock

& Sons Company, general merchants and cotton buyers, Mari-
anna, Arkansas. The big end of the business is heavy farm
equipment (tractors, combines, plows, etc.). They also sell
everything else for the farm and even dry goods.

Stephen F. Chadwick is practicing law in Seattle, Wash-
ington, with offices at 656 Central Building.

J. Carlton Hudson is practicing law in Norfolk, Virginia,
with offices in the National Bank of Commerce Building.

Morey N. Dunn is practicing law in West Palm Beach,
Florida, with offices in the Harvey Building.

1915

Joseph W. Hodges is serving his fifteenth year as District
Attorney, Sixth Judicial District, State of New Mexico. Ad-
dress: Box 249, Silver City, New Mexico.

Frank J. Beckwith is practicing law in Charles ‘Town,
West Virginia.

Madison P. Coe is on the staff of the Federal Reserve
Board, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N. W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

1916

George D. (Shorty) Shore is a member of the law firm of
McLeod & Shore, Sumter, South Carolina. He says he has
adhered strictly to the practice, “when not doing a little fish-
ing.” He is Chairman of the Bicentennial Fund Campaign for
Sumter.

Vivian L. Page is a member of the firm of Page, Page and
Page, Attorneys-at-Law, National Bank of Commerce Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia. His son, Walter A., ’39, after four
and a half years overseas in the Navy, is now practicing law
with his father.

1917

Gabriel de la Haba, has been practicing law in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, since serving in World War I. He has a family
of a wife and three children, the oldest, a graduate student at
Johns Hopkins, the second, a girl, in college in Puerto Rico
and the youngest, recently graduated from high school.

Gus Ottenheimer is still engaged in the manufacture of
women’s and children’s clothing under the firm name of Ot-
tenheimer Brothers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

1918

Raymond M. Bear is still with the Navy Bureau of Aero-
nautics plugging for bigger and better aircraft propellers. Ad-
dress: 1401 Fairmont Street N. W., Washington 9, D. C.

Allein Beall, Jr., now a merchandise broker, Helena, Ar-
kansas, has a son, Upton, in the freshman class at Washing-
ton and Lee this fall.

1919

Arthur M. Cromwell is Sales Manager, Wholesale, Con-
solidated Machinery and Supply Company, 2031 Santa Fe
Avenue, Los Angeles, California.

A. D. Collins has been Resident Engineer, Dingess-Run
Coal Company since 1926. Address: Box 155, Stollings, West
Virginia.

1920

James B. Waters is Vice-President of McCrory, Arm-

[31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

strong and Waters, Inc., 411 Barnett Bank Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida. He married Agnes Nolan Power and they
have a daughter and son, Beryl Jane, and James B., Jr. Ad-
dress: 1429 Edgewood Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida.

1921

R. Paul Sanford is practicing law in Danville, Virginia,
with offices in the Masonic Building. He is a director in Cro-
well Long Auto Company, Inc., and director, Boston Transit
Company, Inc.

Carl E. L. Gill is Director of Industrial Relations, Wans-
kuck Company, Providence, Rhode Island. Address: 150 Up-
ton Avenue, Providence 6, Rhode Island.

John Bell after graduation began the practice of law in
Tampa, Florida, in 1922; became associated with the firm of
Knight, Thompson and Turner in 1925 and has been with this
firm ever since. Its present name is Knight, Thompson,
Knight and Bell. Address: P. O. Box 1288, Stovall’s Profes-
sional Building, Tampa 1, Florida.

1922

William Francis McCann celebrated his “silver jubilee”
with the New York Central R. R. in September. Address: 413
Northview Avenue, New Castle, Pennsylvania.

R. E. Sherrill is head of the Geology Department, Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.

1923

Robert B. Stuart is with the U. S. Civil Service Finance
Office, Fort Eustis, Virginia. Home address: 338-59th Street,
Newport News, Virginia.

Harry Avis Hall is still connected with General Dyestuff
Corporation, New York, New York.

Hobart Spindler is Sheriff of Preston County, Kingwood,
West Virginia. Prior to this position he was Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Preston County for ten years. He and his
wife have recently celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary.

1924

B. L. Malone, Jr., is practicing law with the firm of Ed.
W. Harris, Florida National Bank Building, St. Petersburg
5, Florida.

John W. Greene is Chairman of the City Planning Com-
mission, Knoxville, Tennessee. He is practicing law with
offices in the Park National Bank Building.

1925

M. F. Baugher is a member of the law firm of Williamson,
Gunster & Baugher, First National Bank Building, Palm
Beach, Florida, and President Palm Beach Abstract and

Title Company.

Perry D. Hunter, owner of the general insurance business,
R. C. Hunter Agency, 511-12 Hamilton National Bank Build-
ing, Johnson City, Tennessee.

1926
Wilton W. Conner is Sanitary Inspector, United States

Public Health, Division of Foreign Quarantine, Fisher’s Is-
land, Miami Beach, Florida.

Digby C. West has been with the First National Bank of
Berryville, Arkansas, since graduation. He is now President
of the bank.

1927

Preston Moore, was in the Navy and spent 18 months in
London attached to Admiral Stark’s headquarters. He is now
Associate Professor of History at Louisiana State Univer-
sity, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

M. E. (Buster) Newbern, Jr., Arkansas State Teachers
College, Conway, Arkansas, is Manager of the College Book
Store. He has a san 6 feet, 3 inches tall.

1928

John L. Lancaster is in the general practice of law with
offices in the Republic Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

John D. McHugh is in the general practice of law at 39
Church Street, New Haven, Connecticut.

Stuard A. Wurzburger is a partner—Wurzburger & Stein-
man, labor consultants to management, 10 East 40th Street,
New York, New York.

1929

Dr. James William Tankard received the M.D. degree
from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in 1933.
He is now a practicing physician and surgeon with offices at
100 Hopkins Street, Hilton Village, Virginia. He became a
Fellow of the American College of Surgeons in 1943.

Henry H. Hellriegel is in the lumber business in Alberta,
Virginia. He has been with the Brunswick Lumber Company
in Alberta since 1929, successively as Assistant Treasurer,
1934; Treasurer and General Manager, 1935; now member of
the Board of Directors and controlling 50 per cent of the
stock of the company.

1930

Edward I. Bostwick is Assistant Claim Adjuster for The
Travelers Insurance Company, 801 Mutual Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia. He has been connected with this company
since graduation from Washington and Lee.

Leonard H. Davis is Police Justice of Norfolk, Virginia,
and Attorney-at-Law. Address: Police Court, Norfolk 10,
Virginia.

1931

Rev. John W. Myrose is Director of the Presbyterian Hos-
pitality House, 2900 Sixth Avenue, San Diego 3, California.

Gene Johnson has been with the du Pont Company in
Waynesboro, Virginia, since his graduation in 1933, with the
exception of two years during the war when he was trans-
ferred to explosive departments in other localities. He has
been married since 1934 and he and his wife have three chil-
den, a boy 8, a girl 4% and a boy who was 9 months old
in April.

Macon R. Crocker, Special Agent, American Insurance
Group, 1009 Nashville Trust Building, Nashville, Tennessee,
has been with the same company since leaving school, with
an interim of two years in the Army. He is married and has
a daughter five years old.

[ 32 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1932

L. C. Harrell, Jr., is Commonwealth’s Attorney of Green-
ville County, Virginia, practicing law in Emporia, Virginia.

Dr. George W. Morse is back at the old stand doing sur-
gery, after a tour in the Army. He is with The Medical Cen-
ter, 24 West Chase Street, Pensacola, Florida.

John Clinton Harris is still Managing Partner of the
Scottsboro Wholesale Grocery Company, Scottsboro, Ala-
bama. He is married and has two children, Mary Ann, age
four, and John Clinton, Jr., age two.

1933

John A. Womeldorf is Pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Princeton, West Virginia. He is the author of an
article in the December, 1947, issue of The Christian Century
on “Rattlesnake Religion” in the mountainous regions of
Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and
West Virginia. He has made a very thorough study of the
cult and feels that the civil authorities have been very pa-
tient with the group. Many municipalities and states have
now banned the handling of snakes in religious worship in
spite of loud protests from the cultists and from a few other
people who feel that no restrictions should be placed upon
the practice of religion.

1934

Thomas S. Wheelwright is Farm Editor, Petersburg Pro-
gress-Index and farmer, Chesterfield County, his home be-
ing “Buckhead,” Centralia, Virginia.

Robert B. Shively is President of Shively Motors, Inc.,
R. R. No. 42, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.

1935

Charles C. Smith is a real estate broker with Buckman,
Ulmer & Mitchell, Inc., Buckman Building, Jacksonville,
Florida, and Vice-President, Jacksonville Property Managers
Association.

1936

Captain George W. Hohanness is stationed at Clinton
County Army Air Field, Wilmington, Ohio.

Sam M. Greenwood, III, is still engaged in the general
practice of law, with offices in the National Bank of Com-
merce Building, Coatesville, Pennsylvania. He is married and
has a son who was a year old in June, 1947.

1937

Harry T. Moreland was discharged from the Navy in Jan-
uary, 1946, and is now with the Maryland Casualty Company
in Pensacola, Florida. Address: 421 S. E. Baublits Court,
Navy Point, Pensacola, Florida.

Stanley C. Higgins is a member of the law firm of Mahan,
White, Higgins and Laird, Fayetteville, West Virginia. He
married Jean Kent in 1938 and they have one son, Stanley
Kent.

1938

Cyrus V. Anderson has been associated with the Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Company since he got out of the Navy in
1945. The work is antitrust, and as a result he has been for--
tunate in continuing in the branch of law which he likes best.

Address: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, 2100 Grant Build-
ing, Pittsburgh 19, Pennsylvania.

1939

Robert W. Arnold is a candidate for election to the United
States House of Representatives from the Fourth District of
Virginia. He is Commonwealth’s Attorney for Sussex County,
and his home is in Waverly, Virginia. His father, the late
Judge Robert W. Arnold, received his LL.B. from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1908.

1940

Arthur Reno Porter is Instrutor in Economics, University
of Pennsylvania, and attending Graduate School there. Home
address: 4336 Pine Street, Philadelphia 4, Pennsylvania.

1941

John T. Perry, Jr., after graduation at Washington and
Lee received the degree of B.S.E. (Aeronautical Engineering)
from the University of Michigan in 1942. He is now in the
lumber and contracting business in Lexington, Kentucky, at
311 North Ashland Avenue.

1942

Charles F. Bagley, Jr., after five years in the Army Air
Corps, returned to Washington and Lee in 1946, receiving
his Law degree in September of that year. He is now practic-
ing law with Campbell and McNeer, ’16, First Huntington Na-
tional Bank Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Beverley Lee is now with the accounting department of
the American Viscose Corporation, and lives at 18 Prospect
Street, Front Royal, Virginia. He married Katherine Keith
and they have a young son Robert, Jr.

1943

William K. Privett is with Southern Natural Gas Com-
pany, Watts Building, Birmingham, Alabama. He was mar-
ried to Katherine Binford in 1944 and their home address is
1107 South 30th Street, Birmingham, Alabama.

1944

Richard L. Duchossois, after being placed on inactive mili-
tary status, became connected with the Haffner-Thrall Car
Company (new and rebuilt R. R. equipment), 39 South La
Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois. He married Beverly Elizabeth
Thrall in 1943 and they have two children, Craig Jerome, born
in 1944, and Dayle Paige, born in 1947. Home address: 9114
South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

1945

Don Monroe Casto, Jr., is in the real estate business with
his father at 145 North High Street, Columbus, Ohio. He mar-
ried Betty Grover in 1943 and they have a son and daughter,
Don Monroe, III, born in 1945, and Ann Chilton, born, 1946.

1946
William S. Todd, Jr., is a cadet at the United States Mili-
tary Academy, Company K-2, West Point, New York.

David Lewis is a student at Baltimore College of Dental
Surgery, Lombard and Green Streets, Baltimore, Maryland.
He will graduate in June, 1948.

 

WANTED
“Wanted by the Alumni Office, 2 copies of the 1923 Calyx.”

[ 33 ]

‘The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Marriages

1924

Henry Currey Dearborn was married to Mrs. Ellen Dry-
den Moller, of Winnetka, Illinois, on January 20, 1948.

1941

Richard Sandstrom, Jr., was married to Margaret Bruce
Walthal of Memphis, Tennessee, on September 9, 1947.

1942
Lieutenant Edward Calohill Burks and Gertrude Fischer
Pordon of Vienna, Austria, were married in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, December 20, 1947.
1944
James Withers Davis was married to Alice Pelzer Joseph
on January 31, 1948, in Montgomery, Alabama.

 

Births

1938

Mr. and Mrs. John Wesley Ray are the parents of a
daughter, Priscilla Ann, born February 11, 1948.

1943

Dr. and Mrs. James F. Berry are the parents of a son born
December 22, 1947. Dr. Berry is on the staff of the United
States Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Maryland.

1945

- Mr. and Mrs. Ellis O. Moore, are the parents of a son,
born January 13, 1948, Memphis, Tennessee.

 

In Memoriam

1880
Charles Maynard Cooke of Fort Smith, Arkansas, died
December 13, 1947.
1883
John Turner Ireland died at his home in Paris, Kentucky,
December 26, 1947.
1884
Richard Godson of Midway, Kentucky, died December 3,
1947.
1886
Harry Lee Denny died in Winchester, Virginia, February,
1948.
1903
R. M. Lacy died February 5, 1948, in Cincinnati, Ohio. He
was a B.A. of the Class of 1903.

1905

Dr. Thomas Dwight Sloan died at his home in Charlottes-
ville, Virginia, January 10, 1948.

1906

Henry M. Bandy, LL.B. ’06, died February 17, 1948. His
home was in Norton, Virginia. He represented Wise County
in the Legislature from 1932 to 1938 and from 1942 to 1946.
His son, Henry M., Jr., who was associated with him in the
practice of Law, received the LL.B. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1933.

1907

William R. J. Dunn, of Birmingham, Alabama, died Feb-
ruary 13, 1948. President of the Dunn Construction Company
since 1927, he was also a director of the First National Bank
of Birmingham. Both of his sons, William R. J., Jr., and
Claude Cobbs, are alumni of Washington and Lee.

1909

Herman William Ordeman, of Frederick, Maryland, died
December 31, 1947. Following a 37-year career as a civil en-
gineer, Mr. Ordeman returned to his home town, Frederick,
Maryland, in 1946. Three of Mr. Ordeman’s brothers are
also alumni of Washington and Lee: C. Lee, ’12; G. Fred-
erick, "12 and Daniel Thomas, ’20.

1913

Judge Harvey Black Apperson died suddenly at his home
in Richmond, Virginia, February 2, 1948. Former member of
the State Corporation Commission and former State Senator
from Roanoke County, Virginia, Judge Apperson was recent-
ly appointed Attorney General of Virginia.

1918

John Harvey Sorrells died suddenly on February 25, 1948,
He was Executive Editor, Scripps Howard Newspapers. His
son, John H., Jr., is in the senior class at Washington and Lee.

1924

Lucius Lamar Daugherty died August 29, 1947, at his home
in Jacksonville, Florida.
1926
Mark W. Magruder died February 5, 1948. His death was
the result of a fall down the stairs in his home in Richmond,
Virginia. He was a member of the staff of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch.
1927
William Eastman Gage, of Pine Bluff, Arkansas, died
January 1, 1948.
1928

Hollis S. (Babe) Spotts died February 2, 1948. His home
was in Sherman, Connecticut. He is survived by his wife, the
former Alwyn Hughson of Roanoke, Virginia, and a son,
David, 17, and a daughter, Jere, 11.

1934

William Harvey Wood died at his home in Phoenix,
Arizona, January 25, 1948.

 

“DEAR FOLKS”
Letters of Lt. Deverton Carpenter

The letters of Deverton Carpenter, A.B. ’37, written dur-
ing the war to his parents Senator and Mrs. J. C. Carpenter,
Jr., of Clifton Forge, Virginia, have recently been published
by Bruce Humphries, Inc., under the title “Dear Folks.”
There could be no better way to perpetuate the memory of
an outstanding war hero.

Lieutenant Carpenter lost his life in a jeep accident on
March 23, 1945, in Germany, while General Patton’s third
army was crushing the final German resistance on the West-
ern Front. He was attached to General Patton’s Headquarters
as Signal Corps officer.

Possessing literary talent far beyond that of the average
soldier and even of the average newspaper reporter, the man-
ner in which the letters were written forms an interesting
account of a typical soldier’s part in the war. He minimized
his heroism which brought the award of the Bronze Star,
by saying that others deserved it more than he.

[ 34 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OPERATING STATEMENT

For the Year Ended June 30, 1947

OPERATING INCOME (Undesignated) :

lesa Pi crernt Fete <sccc ok cso ccc ae $21,306.14
DESIGNATED INCOME:

BURR eNNNN EA TO PIIUN sos 5a. oa 3p 20> cd 00cce bwa'ecccgee cun >> /adhaoge Sapa meee ie eae ae $ 1,100.00
Pirtprrremette PLIetiCs soc. cipcesapssescdaectcs+scm snaps oep aes gid eu aos 45.00
TMM ee og oases soidak agp -nies os abennsnestsvdnosenbeactnsacsSNneds thas eee yale eamuamaa laa cians! 5.00

Total Designated. Income. .................<ccisssivi-.s25<2sse0ciass -- Sook eae $ 1,150.00

TD GRAn © BRNO oo nov Sans cnce cicscansencescansnscosencoc’sse sah coucoaces: UPC ASEREE CREE an $22,456.14

OPERATING EXPENSES:

SoU mn a ce os cass Salad uve cocons ave odsaccwmn ent ile hGy ealea Tan NIanEnaa an $ 7,948.22
eS Ae i an AGG oo ooo ccc d us Sco scs te vacte ebb dasins one psslegdansadorashceoebdegd ones ORDER aR 1,358.05
PATRIA, yah aoa gs 6 ih coX ep cotnde ajytensbneecaacsss goin deck anya esay oes trees 3,133.73
PPPS Tne ails a ek cogs <a <<a ics ad nas ccs ns vsesi cdnasssnkancovegedte ovowtatonhcusesess 14s ARE 139.25
RNIN greece pot pias 0a pho dos tns arin s pub cents Sonny dle ousipabb elles venie ogee a 138.50
MPM aaa LAE 1c, cect saa veohios top anses Gos Sos opnp sos gen hab aie oka ncachags oteoee 487.87
TRU ROE ee alice ere AGL L. coos 0kse~ {cadena po ansaets dbsdniescscbedeoncssanyigel Mae 1,351.73
COU Te a aad th aah epics sc sans cose cnnses deecacibgpscunsbbong avers Reema 456.62
ECCI 6 caer etm le a Na oa oc jcoey ans av bas 02s Ses accce odds cue gnso'es agekon opbecshanyee peas 421.00
CUISINE AORN cae 25 Ln 5 yc in vedi nde nos oud hbsoen ees faa Mag pin 127.86
Scconsaiel Ie cv at rm a rr eS Sa gcdvcocasdadksbahiecsiacciheatenbee 1,417.50
iiss lepenicn ig 5 oni eats areca a esas Fe Saath Fake ins nngsdsnsesedd casnnoucess AbrGocpioss 135.95

TOR gAE Rea MU cre clad scenic hcp Sal 2. cked.sWccpne seach ethene Soasenbs abi $17,116.28

EOCENE GE Demme iN I oy Lass bapa an cic dake esis teas shavenegee -oves savin edioadegdenss cb 5,339.86

GE Fs sce ce eae ania tN are I Oe eg iS, cs okerettuhecuaskee $22,456.14

STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY TREASURER

Biecsaitenoiel Fie osc a ee ee a Ra ie 9 de ie ie tle a $ 1,100.00
interconegiate ~ARMets - 2.5 2: 2.2: sic ccik nae SoS ROSE AiR Eel A a 45.00
POISE 5c) se Spaeth aes & eee (ch ak aa i MN Chee ores teas aso) sedi Sed hs ob vnc asec 5.00
For Payment of Association’s Operating Expenses .................:c:ccccsesescseeeeseseeeseeeeeen 17,116.28
Pep LMOOUSTURTES 85 sie Soc <cuninlcsj--sussa seco elicnety alee PIR eect os idan san ost abuts Labo aan viv ete: 4,189.86

POUm)  “TPRBN OTS: 3356557. 5 Se tee eee ae «SA RE A SEE Oe canbe tive $22,456.14

CasH BaLance, JuNE 30, 1947—ReEvotvinc Funp (Advanced by University Treas-
MV|T LOL COLT ONE ATOR RN ie ics Saf ina aol chis ints Mah en Case ase $ 800.00
CARE BALANCE, FOR OO; 2G p EA Tie Mees «sks pn Speen dei ssn ce cians. cance nas beGerenscbele bas 1,102.06

 

: ke? ~~ —
> am & rom ra Ae ES “a FIO’ TABS

 

a fe

a RRB «
\. 385

- -

é

——s-

eo "
-

 

1949

