    

7 The | a. 7

- Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hie 0: January 20, 1942,
JAMES HUBERT PRICE, class of 1909, governor
of Virginia since 1938, retires from his office,

as he must under the law.

So far as we are concerned, Jim Price has
been more than a good governor of Virginia—
he has been a good alumnus of Washington
and Lee—one of the many men who are at
the same time outstanding Americans and

active alumni.

Because he is both, and because he is just NOW
leaving a job that he has done magnificently
well, we consider it a privilege to have his
picture on our cover and to dedicate to him

this issue of The Alumni Magazine.

 

 

 

 

 

alachian
oT P. Collins, Marion, Va.

Arkansas

James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Alex M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland

John C. Hoover, 208 E. 34th Street
Birmingham, Alabama

John F, Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky de

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

Cc. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

W. R. Allen, 135 8. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio Hee

Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio ae

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

Carl ‘V. ‘iarris
Cumberland Valley

Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.

Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building

Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’] Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Cc. Lynch Christian

Louisville, Kentucky

Memphis, Tennessee

Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York

William M. Brown, 122 East 42nd St.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Cc. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

_A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

Richmond, Virginia

Dr. Dewey Davis
Roanoke, Virginia

E. H, Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California,

Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State

George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

Brian Bell, Star Building

 

See:

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Oldham Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.

 

 

Vol. XVII DECEMBER, 1941 No.2
Editor) 00  Hagey ge. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor....GkORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

®

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pree ase Joun C. Morrison, 1925
DECTEIIV =, Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Dt vregsurer os Dr. ReEip Wui're, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carrott Mean, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
R. G. WHITtLe, 1924
Rocer Bear, 1914

 

Contents for December, 1941

be PAGE
The Student and the Crisis: (President's Pace) oc ac 3
New tecord- for Sl ake ee a ee +
One Hiardred Years oF Getiggy es 5
Prospects tor Winter Sports oe ce eo ee 6
Camis onunent ore oh 7
A New) ype ot. Vareiy SNOW nok. a eve ae 8
meal Avpreciqtion ot Beauty je). ee a 8
EL teutetem 4 verre Tuck tye a 9
Piomecomiimed Romany. a oe ee 10
Local Alumni Association Ne@tes....0 co. sae at ae 11
do: Memoria ohcek 3 el a i
Coles NGtGR LD

 

 

 

 

 

Solve Your Christmas Gift Problem with
‘Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

ORDER FORM

Lose ho for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of eight plates [| (or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS

be Wastmeion College. cas [4 5 Carnevie Labfaty 274 ies a
2: LeesCnepel sic a ee ee 6. Doremus Gymnasiun: .2..0..045 Eo 4}
o. (ee Jackson Hane 7 oan [ong 7: acker Tia i. be
A Caius Walk ce oe oe 8. Washington College, 1857_..:...:; a

Check color choice: 2) ae Pi) Green [ ] Mulberry
Ship plates to:

Name ccc ee St et a en ee pai eee

Adress @0 a Jee Rea eps REE Oe 1

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

De ea en
7 sa - a ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

a

Nee ne en nn nnn nn nnn nnn nn ee ee een nn nee eee re ee a ea ee ae eee ae eae ee
. 7" - — ee a semen ee ae . semen aneranerantan TaD - - auseumemnens a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Student and the Crisis

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

HE Committee on Public Occasions, together with
BU certain officers of administration, suggested an assem-
bly to consider the relations of the University community,
and particularly the students, to the pres-
ent crisis. I was asked to attempt a brief
talk. It was not easy to find the appropri-
ate word; but I submitted for the con-
sideration of the boys the following pos-
sible procedures.

ee

1. To clarify and affirm their own con-
victions. This struggle is not a European
squabble with colonial implications. It is a
clash between two ideas of life. The clash
is in every important domain of our being:
in the economic world between our concep-
tion of the flow of goods from nation to
nation and a conception of the ordering of
goods for the peculiar benefit of one na-
tion; in the international relationship, a clash between
honored treaties with respect for the pledged word against
mendacity and deception as acknowledged instruments of
diplomacy ; in the intellectual world, a clash between free-
dom of inquiry and controlled instruction or information ;
in the social world,a clash between kindness with tolerance
and respect for personality against arrogance of race with
cruelty and discipline of utter brutality; in the religious
world, between the dignity of religion with an inherent
liberty for it and the debasement of religion as an organ

of political program: kk Ok

2. To quicken and enlarge their sympathies. As the
prophet of old spoke for Jerusalem, the race of man
might cry today, “Is it nothing to you, O ye that pass by?
Behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sor-
row!” From the heights of Norway where men shiver to
the heights of Greece where they starve and the herded
cities of China where they die, humanity today suffers as
hever before in civilized history. In our comforts and in
Our relative security, we must develop awareness of the

grief of the world, response to its need, sacrifice for its
relief.
oe:

3. To fortify their idealism. This generation of youth
might well purpose, more resolutely than any group be-
fore, that out of this chaos of terror must be wrought
some system of safety, out of anarchy some abiding order,
Out of the aggressions of force some protective policy for

 

es

the defenseless. One profoundly convinced generation of
Americans might do more than any other group in the
world to overthrow, once and for all, the methodology

of brute force as a factor in world affairs.

Re

4. To simplify their own lives. Nobody
would want the college campus, even in
these dreadful days to become grim or
drab. The gayety of youth is the tonic of
the world. Yet our college students might
well recognize the gravity of the circum-
stances that surround us, might develop a
new economy in response to the great
cost of our defense, might ponder the
modes of serious help open to them as
citizens, before any military call sounds in
their ears. All of us must forego pleasures,
accept responsibilities; and college youth
constitute no exception to the general urgency.

OK

5. To use advantageously every opportunity of the
present. This attitude is always important but today is
more so than ever. Whether for military effort, for some
significant collateral responsibility, or for the mysterious
years that lie beyond the end of this struggle, the creden-
tial of excellence has more value today than it has ever
had before.

PE Oe

6. To cherish stubbornly their own long-time purpose
for life. It would be pure tragedy, and immense tragedy,
for the individual as well as for the nation, if the tempor-
ary should triumph over the permanent. It would be
tragedy for the nation to lose the varied competence of
a whole generation of youth that suddenly abandoned its
plans. for useful civic life in behalf of a military training
useful only for an emergency. It would be a tragedy for
the individual life of the boy who might fail to achieve
his happiest and most influential plan of self-expression,
might surrender his ambition and his dream. Whatever
interruption may come, whatever its dimension of time
or of momentary authority, the student should cling to
his dream and resolve strongly to make it come true.

pati Gt ine Ue

President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Some of the delegates present at the S. I. P. A. Convention—others were in session

New Record for S. I.

HIS is by no means the first time this magazine has

had occasion to comment on the annual activities of
the Southern Interscholastic Press Association, but we
bring it to your attention again in this issue because we
think you would like to keep informed of the progress of
an organization which is doing so much to make Wash-
ington and Lee, particularly its department of Journalism,
better known and more highly regarded in the South.

Every year, late in the fall, Washington and Lee gath-
ers boys and girls from all over this section—high school
children who have conceived a special interest for news-
paper work—young people whose interest may be culti-
vated and enlightened by contact with those who are at
the top of the newspaper profession.

‘This year was a banner year : 485 delegates—145 more
than the record attendance of last year—gathered for
the 17th annual two-day convention, heard speeches, one
by an alumnus, Maxwell Wilkinson, 1920, attended ban-
quets, went to a dance, won prizes, and received criticisms
of their work.

To illustrate how wide-spread the interest is in the
Association: the new student-president comes from Am-
herst, Virginia, but he just beat out a boy from Balti-
more; prizes in a Current Events contest went to Roan-
oke, Virginia, and Winston-Salem, North Carolina. A
banquet was in charge of the Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, high school, while the retiring president came from
Fort Knox, Kentucky. Altogether, ten states and the dis-
trict of Columbia were represented.

The delegates heard a speaker who has been a war

ia]

‘ a
¥ %
ve

bE a ¥ 3

2

correspondent and has been in a Nazi prison; the whole
college benefited from an address concerning American.
history as it can be seen in a study of mail-order cata
logues. Delegates had conferences with advisers, saw Na
tural Bridge, looked at motion pictures about newspape
work, and met important men whose places in the news
paper business they may some day fill.

It is not hard to see that Washington and Lee is do
ing a very real service in this work and is following ou
the belief of Robert E. Lee, the Journalism Schools
founder, that an enlightened press in this country is of
supreme importance. These children, perhaps the future”
hope of the Southern Press, must have gone home en-
lightened. 4

The credit goes to Professor O. W. Riegel, general
chairman of the Convention and head of the Department
of Journalism; Robert M. Hodges, his assistant; C. Har- |
old Lauck, director of the Journalism Laboratory Press;
and all the present students in Journalism who enthusias-
tically assisted in making this year’s convention a success

a3

 

A. Tuomas (Junig£) Bisuop, Jr., 1941, a star of las!
year’s football team, has accepted a sales position in t
Floor Division of the Armstrong Cork Company and is1
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, for an intensive nine months
training program.

Altogether, 44 college graduates representing 41 edu
cational institutions were offered employment by thé
company from among several thousand applicants who
received interviews. 4

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

One Hundred Years of Geology

EDITOR’S NOTE: It occurred to the editors the
other day that many alumm must want to know some-
thing about the academic as well as the extra-curricular
side of Washington and Lee, and so we are embarking
on a series of articles which we hope will describe in
general the work being done by several of the academic
departments. In our last issue we started with a page on
the department of Chemistry; for this edition, still stay-
ing with the sciences, we propose a brief survey of the
work of the geology department since the death, seven
years ago, of Dr. Henry D. Campbell, 1885, who directed
its destinies so many years.

 

CCORDING to Professor Marcellus H. Stow, present
ae of the Washington and Lee department
of geology, the present war is being fought over rocks.
In old wars, the fighters used to throw rocks at each
other ; present armies use materials extracted from rocks
with deadly purpose. |

To be more specific, it is evident to anyone that under-
lying the whole vast struggle is the desire of nations to
get geologic materials that they do not now possess—oil,
and tin, and whatever aluminum is made of and a whole
lot of minerals with peculiar names. Hence the position
of geologist today is a strategic one; hence colleges must
train geologists.

For some inexplicable reason, not all colleges offer
courses in geology—small colleges in particular—and
this puts Washington and Lee in rather a unique position,
since we not only off-
er geology, but we
have offered it for
more than a century.
The records go back
to 1835; the depart-
ment must be one of
the oldest in the coun-
try.

Washington and
Lee has rare advan-
tages for geological
Study; we are situ-
ated in one of the fin-
st districts in the
World from a geolog-
cal point of view—

 

Dr. Lammers’ class in a laboratory equipped by Nature

[5]

a region with variety enough to demonstrate almost every
phase of geological study; and we have as good teachers
of the subject as could be found anywhere.

These professors, Marcellus Henry Stow, a Ph.D. of
Cornell, and Edward C. H. Lammers, ditto of Chicago,
have a definite purpose for their department. Primarily
they want to make the courses cultural for the benefit of
the majority who will not go into geological work; but at
the same time, all study is on a level which will prepare
professional geologists.

Instruction is personally supervised even in the in-
troductory course for freshmen which, though smaller
than it was in Dr. Campbell’s day, still numbers between
ninety and one hundred. In the advanced work, every-
thing possible is done by means of individual projects
and seminars. For instance, for some time past, a group
of undergraduates has had the opportunity of doing 1m-
portant geological research on its own, discussing the
results of the professors, and finally presenting its find-
ings in papers read before the Virginia Academy of
Science. Three such papers will be published this year in
the Academy’s Journal. Students really learn something
when they do things this way!

Washington and Lee’s leading position in the Vir-
ginia Academy is shown in other ways than this. Dr.
Stow is the president-elect of this important organiza-
tion; furthermore, he is chairman of its James River
Project Committee which is going to study the whole
James River Basin in Virginia with the intention of
finding ways to improve the region as a human habitat.
AS a: tribute ta-the
excellence of our stu-
dent - geologists, the
Academy. of Science
awarded five of our
young men a grant
irom its, Researeh
Fund of seventy-five
dollars to be used in
work they are carry-
ing out. These boys:
N. C. Steenland, Lane
Sartor, Roper. ,
Wilbur, Henry 3.
Woods, and Robert
W. Root, are going
to make minutely de-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tailed maps of a small area about five miles square with
Lexington as center.

Geology students have other unique advantages at
Washington and Lee. They go on more field trips than
are undertaken in most other places—there are more 1m-
portant rocks to take field trips to! In the summers some
go to Montana where they take part in the researches of
the Yellowstone-Big Horn Research Association, a geo-
logical organization founded by a Washington and Lee
alarms, Or. W.-1. Fhom, ‘|r.,;.1913,-and’ still: under
strong Washington and Lee influence. The recently-or-
ganized course in military geology gives students a
chance, still rare in American colleges, of learning that
all-important subject. An unusual opportunity to study

airplane maps shows, too, how up-to-date the work is
and how successful is this department in its aim of mak-
ing work in geology not only a method of giving historical
perspective but also of integrating geology with life as
it is today.

No complaint comes from the geology department
about their hopelessly cramped quarters or their inade-
quate equipment. They are capable of doing splendid work
even against somewhat discouraging obstacles. After all,
their real laboratory is the great outdoors.

Young men who want to learn geology—and all
modern young men ought to—should come to Wash-
ington and Lee. Nowhere in the United States—in the
world perhaps—could they find a better place.

 

Prospects tor Winter Sports

By MarsHatt Jounson, 1942

iru football out of the way and the emphasis now
W on winter athletics, practices in three sports—
basketball, wrestling and swimming—have revealed a
fairly bright outlook for Washington and Lee for the
next three months. |

Sophomores are being counted on heavily in basket-
ball and swimming, but the wrestling squad, with only
one letterman missing and four Southern Conference
champions on the roster, stacks up as one of the strong-
est in recent years.

Freshman drills are being held in all these sports, but
the coaches say there has not been sufficient time to
judge the potentialities of the yearling squads.

Conference champions Sam Graham at 118 pounds,
Bud Robb at 126 pounds, co-captain Tommy Fuller at
136 pounds, and Lillard Ailor in the heavyweight division,
_ head an imposing array of eight lettermen on the wres-
-. tling squad. ;

Also present from last year’s squad, which captured
the conference team championship, are co-captain Charlie
Lanier, Doug House, Jim Davidson and Bob Schellen-
berg. The only vacancy on the team is in the 175-pound
division, and Coach Archie Mathis has four sophomores
to call on if the veterans start slipping—Dave Embry, Ed
Waddington, Roger Soth and Ned Lawrence.

The basketball squad, twice Southern Conference
champions in the last ten years and long a terror to other
southern teams, appears to be weaker than in previous

years with only two lettermen available, Captain Ed Cut-
tino and Leo Signaigo.

Gone from last year’s team which finished fourth in
conference standings, only to be eliminated in the first
round of the annual tournament at Raleigh, are Dick
Pinck, All-State forward for three years; Bob Gary, all-
around guard; Captain and center Howard Dobbins, and
two sophomore stars, Jeff Hudson and Johnny Ligon.

The success of Coach Cookie Cunningham’s quintet
rests largely on four sophomores and a junior from last
year’s team who did not win his letter. The junior is
Johnny Kirkpatrick, and the first-year men on the squad
are George Wood, Clancy Ballenger, Leon Harris and
Bill Bryan.

Coach Cy Twombly wasn’t exactly gloomy as he dis-
cussed the chances of his swimming team, but he too 1s
counting on sophomores to furnish a winning season. He
says the chief loss to the swimmers was the graduation
of Captain Bob Boyce, leaving him with no adequate re-
placement in the dives.

At least six lettermen from last year’s squad are re-
turning, headed by Captain Evans Jasper. The others are

~ Don Garretson, Don Crawford, Lin Murdock, Don Rich-

ardson and Bill Webster.

Twombly hopes that sophomore Bob DeHaven might
fill the diving shortage, and says the key to a successful
season lies with the performances turned in by other first-
year squad men: Bill McKelway, Bill Babcock, Bob Me-
horter and Lynch Christian.

[ 6 |

 

 

> The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Campus Comment

By WactER DownlE, 1942

ne of the best stories coming out of the recent date at the recent VMI Thanksgiving hops. A W&L stu-
Homecoming and Opening Dance weekend concerns dent, attending one of the dances, upon learning that she

- a Washington and Lee sophomore who wouldn't say die. was from the same city as one of his fraternity brothers,
The boy in question, who lives in a small Western town asked the girl if she was acquainted with the brother, and
here men are men and with the girl to whom the
_tke women are supposedly brother was pinned. The
glad of it, about a month
“before the dance - set
, pened negotiations with
one of his fair feminine
| &quaintances for a date
-ipgr the weekend. The

reply he got went some-
thing like this. “I know of
the girl you mentioned,
but I have never heard of
the boy, and I’m not par-
ticularly interested in

young lady was sorry, but
“her family was coming to
wsit her and she'd be un-
able to accept his kind in-
Vitation. Undaunted, our
-sephomore proceeded to
write to another of his
“many girl-friends. Her ex-
cuse was just about as air-
_ tight as that of the first.
Well, this sort of thing
eontinued until three days
_ before the big weekend,
and the persistent student
*had_ received “ICC’s” (I
y sant come) from exactly
nine fair maidens. He was
Aust about to rack up and
call it quits, when, on
Wednesday morning be-

Washington and Lee men
anyway.” So there!

*x* *«* *

Living in a_ college
town affects the customs
and thinking of many per-
sons. They unconsciously
pick up college language
and customs. For example,
take the two colored but-
lers at one of the frater-
nity houses. One day last
month, the intramural
sports manager of this
house was attempting at
lunch to recruit enough
boys to make up two full
teams for a practice scrim-
mage in intramural foot-

ball that afternoon. He
needed one more man, and
his was fine thought after listening to excuses
#ur hero, until that af- from the various members
_ ternoon, when a telegram informed him that girl number was ready to give up in despair. Some witty guy piped up,
three had reconsidered and would be on hand for the “How about Sambo?” Sambo, never cracking a smile,
* dances. With typical Western resourcefulness, our Wash- replied, “No suh, I’ve got a lab this afternoon.” In the
s ington and Lee gentleman rose to the situation, coralled same house, the other butler came through the kitchen
an unsuspecting freshman to whom he gave girl number door one evening with his hand full of cups of hot tea.
%en. He then explained to number ten that he had merely Unaccustomed to such haste on the part of the usually
« asked her for a blind date with a freshman, and everyone _ slow fellow, one of the boys asked, “Why the hurry, Wil-
liam ?” “This is de “I” formation,” was the ready reply.

*fore Friday, the tenth girl
, accepted his invitation.

 

We ra , ’
, Was very happy.

ie a
Washi n took a verbal beating at tl * ec
ashington and Lee men took a ver yal beating at the
ands of a sophisticated young thing who was a cadet’s Merry Christmas to the alumni from the students!
>
[7 |
i >

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A New Type of Varsity Show

By E. J. McCarty, 1942

HREE years ago, as readers of this magazine may re-
ae a group of boys, led by Ross Hersey, spon-
taneously put together an entertainment called “W & I,
Zapoppin’”’ to raise money for the Red Cross. Last year,
something of the same sort was tried |
again with apparently less success be-
cause the idea was no longer spontan-
eous or fresh. So this year, the students
are branching out into a standard ‘‘Var-
sity Show” of the type well-known for
years at Princeton, the University. of
Pennsylvania and other schools. The
only important difference between our
show and theirs, according to “Dusty”
Millar, the under-graduate director of
the performance, is that ours will be
better. |

By the time most of you receive
this copy, the show (slated for Decem-
ber 12 and 13) will be over, but we
think we shall do better to forecast
its success now than to relate ancient
history in our next issue.

Most older alumni, we are sure, al remember the
old type of varsity show, coached by a local lady who
once went to elocution school or an elderly faculty mem-
ber who was indulgent towards the stage—the show
that featured the football and wrestling teams dressed up
in pink tights and trying to do chorus routines. It was
pretty sad whether anyone admitted it or not.

But nowadays? This year’s show, “Say It Again,” will

 

Lee Collins, Director

  
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  

be directed by no less than Lee Collins, a professiong)
from New York who has directed 300 big stage shows
already and is now condescending to try to teach th
college boys how to do it. A football chorus ?—perish th
thought! Real girls, with beauty a f
talent, will be imported from Souther
Seminary, whose Dean, Mrs. Russel
Robie, has consented to let them prae
tice and perform. The rest of the actor
will be students.
The whole show is original Wash
ington and Lee. Tommy Fuller,
unusual combination of wrestler and
poet, wrote the script for “Sam '
Again,” while Paul Thomas has fur
nished fourteen original songs so good
-as to have “received praise from ex-
perienced men of the theatre.” 1
They are going to have a standard
42-foot stage, constructed in that build-
ing-of-all-work, the Doremus Gym-
nasium, with scenery and other appur-
tenances ; and costumes from a profes
sional theatrical supply hase in New York. |
The proceeds will go to the Lexington Childrea
Clinic, a decidedly worthy charity which, perhaps, need
the money more than the Red Cross does. j
These boys have not forgotten the reality of war he
faces them—how could they ?—but they are not letting
it get them down. Up comes a varsity show, bigger anc
better. Maybe there is a future after all! ’

 

Real Appreciation of Beauty

ONATHAN DANIELS, well known author of A South-
J erner Discovers the South and a more recent book on
North Carolina, Tar Heels, has recently given Washing-
ton and Lee a tribute which seems to us to sum up ad-
mirably not only how this campus looks, but also what
it stands for as a Southern monument.

The exact quotation is from a recent article by Mr.
Daniels in the November issue of Harper’s Magazine. It
is called, “Seeing the South” and describes what the

[8 |

  
  
   
  
   

author calls a “Grand Tour” of this region. The pertine
sentences read as follows: (The italics are ours.)

“We are on the home stretch now: north by Roanoke
to Lexington. Without knowing it you ride on the high-
way over the Natural Bridge of Virginia. It is a services
able natural wonder and also a profitable one. It i
fenced in by owners who rake in the fees. If you afé
strong for natural wonders, I suppose you must see it

(Continued on page 10)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lieutenant-Governor Tuck, 1921

oVEMBER elections in Virginia brought good news
for Washington and Lee as Virginia elections so
often do, because William M.: Puck, L1.B., 1921, was
chosen by the people of the state as lieutenant-governor.

And, by the way, Abram Staples,
1908, was again chosen as attorney-
general. ,

The Calyx for Mr. Tuck’s year
printed a remarkably accurate prophecy
about “Bill,” as he was called, saying
that with his ability as a speaker, he
would surely succeed in law and in
politics. These things he has notably
done, and since he is a farmer as well,
owning and operating two tobacco
farms in Halifax County, we might
call him, if nothing more, a_ well-
rounded alumnus.

Mr. Halitax
County, having been born in its “Red
Bank” district. He went to William
and Mary before coming here. When
he had received his LL.B., he went
into practice in South Boston, and he is
still the senior member of the firm of Tuck and Mitchell
there.

Like his father before him, he was elected to the
House of Delegates, and he served in that body in the
sessions of 1924, 1926, 1928, and 1930. In 1931 he was
elected to the state senate, and he has remained in that
body up to the recent election.

Tuck came from

A member of many of the important committees in
both legislative houses, Mr. Tuck was particularly noted
for conducting important legislation through to passage.
He successfully supported the reform measures adopted
during the Byrd administration; he likewise supported
such measures as Old-Age Pensions, Unemployment In-
surance, Slum Clearance, and a miniature AAA for the
state of Virginia. During the administration of Governor
Peery he was the patron of a bill refunding the Century
Bonds, which bill has saved many millions of dollars to
the taxpayers of the state.

An active democrat since the day he reached voting
age, he has been an effective campaigner for many years,
frequently carrying his county and section of the state
tor democratic candidates.

 

William M. Tuck, LL.B., 1921

In the other World War he was a private in the Ma-
rine Corps, and he is active in the American Legion to-
day. He is also a member of the Virginia and American
Bar Associations, is a director in the Citizens Bank of
South Boston, and counsel for the
same, as well as the Bank of Halifax.

In 1928 he married Eva Lovelace
Dillard, and has one step-son, Lester
L. Dillard, now a law student at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Mr. ‘Tuck isa Baptist, and 15a
member of the Masons, the Woodmen
of the World, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and
Phi Delta: PRi.

All alumni acquainted with Mr.
Tuck, as well as those who do not
know him personally, will, we are sure,
wish to join us in hearty congratula-
tions to Virginia’s new  lieutenant-
governor.

 

About “Ran” Shields

In answer to an inquiry by the
alumni secretary concerning Dr. Randolph T. Shields,
1898, John M. Glenn, 1879, wrote:

“You may be interested in the following, which was
received from the secretary of the Associated Boards for
Christian Colleges in China recently, in reply to an inquiry
about Dr. Randolph T. Shields :

““Tust the other day I was talking with one of the
staff on furlough from the Shantung Christian University
Hospital. He stated that Dr. Shields was working hard-
er than ever in his life and that the whole staff at the
hospital is likewise overburdened.

“<The Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting
urged that Dr. Shields take a trip to Chengtu in Free
China where we have another unit of the University
working in connection with West China Union Univer-
sity. Recent advices make it appear that Dr. Shields feels
that such a trip is impossible due to the responsibilities at
Tsihnan.

 

Mr. and Mrs. Emil T. Cannon announced the birth
of a son, Thomas Edward Cannon, on November 9, 1941.

L? |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Homecoming Roundup *

By MarsHALL JoHnson, 1942

ARRED only by the 13-13 tie with Davidson in foot-

ball, one of Washington and Lee’s biggest week-
ends in history was held November 14 and 15, as Home-
coming and Opening Dances combined to lure nearly
1,000 dates and alumni to Lexington for the two-day
affair.

Declared “successful from every standpoint—social-
ly and financially” by students, campus leaders, faculty
representatives and alumni—the weekend will long be
remembered as perhaps the largest fall weekend ever
held at W&L.

Dave Spencer, 140-pound Davidson halfback,
vided most of the gloom as he ran and passed the Wild-
cats to the upset tie with an overconfident and sluggish
General eleven, worn down from its peak by six con-
secutive crucial contests.

Pacing the Blue attack were junior fullback Frank
Socha and sophomore halfback Harry Baugher. Socha
provided the plunging, and Baugher gave the weekend
crowd its biggest thrill by taking a Davidson punt and
returning it 77 yards for the second W&L, score.

But it was the mighty mite from Davidson, the elusive
Spencer, who outshone everybody else on the field as he
employed his triple-threat talents to set up both Wildcat
touchdowns and keep the Generals in hot water most of
the game.

Closing their worst season in many years, the Generals
had the dope bucket kicked over on them again Thanks-
giving when an alert Maryland eleven handed them a 6-0
licking in Baltimore. The season’s record shows one win,
six defeats and two ties.

The Generals scored 69 points during the season to
93 for the opposition, but in only two games did they lose
by more than a one touchdown margin. Kentucky and
Maryland triumphed by one touchdown, and Sewanee and
West Virginia emerged victorious by a single point.

pro-

The Homecoming weekend was launched by the tradi-
tional rally and freshman pajama-torchlight parade. ‘The
glee club, band and student body all had a hand in the
rally, featured by talks by Student Body President How-
ard Dobbins, Head Coach Riley Smith and Captain Bob
Pinck.

Mainly of interest to alumni, football
game, were the buffet luncheon Saturday, the semi-annual
meeting of the Alumni Board and the Alumni Council,
and open house by fraternities.

besides the

[ 10]

    
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
    
    
  

Swelling the attendance at the football game werds
high school students from all over the state—guests of the
University as part of the annual High School Day. Art
other prominent feature was the 85-piece Davidson bang
which performed between the halves. The game marked
the last home appearance of five seniors—Captain Pinck,
Pres Brown, Bert Nelson and Charlie

 

Joe Baugher,
Didier.

Opening Dances, featuring the music of Tony Pastot
and his orchestra, rounded out the weekend as nearly 4
dates swarmed into Lexington for the festivities. 5
President Art Koontz led the Cotillion Club figure wil
Miss Lucy Page of Sarah Lawrence College, and Sopho-®
more President Vernon Millsap led the sophomore figuyg
with Miss Peg Roney of Hollins College.

Highlight of the Saturday night dance was a naticadl
wide broadcast over the Mutual Broadcasting System,
during which President Francis P. Gaines my
alumni who could not be present. |

Alumni Secretary Cy Young said the fraternity dec-
orations “were the best we have ever had, and every
alumnus who came into the Student Union headquarters
commented on them.”

First prize was won by Kappa Sigma for their huge -
wildcat decoration with the “Beat Davidson” theme. Sec-;
ond place went to Sigma Nu, the third award was won
by Sigma Chi and fourth honors went to Phi Epsilon P#

But despite the result of the football game, all wh
attended will be a long time forgetting Homecoming and
Opening Dances, 1941. }

.

 

Real Appreciation of Beauty

(Continued from page 8) J

though I found its commercial setting more Cory
than inspiring. It is a caged wonder now and looks like it.
I brought you this way only because I wanted you to sce
the South at its most beautiful: the green sloping campus
to the red-brick buildings with the tall white porticoes oft
Washington and Lee University. I wish it were the pias 4
ture of the South. I wish, indeed, it were the picture ofiy
America.

 
   

‘That is the end of the Grand Tour.” 3

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

: On the night of October 17—that
Richmond preceding the University of Rich-

mond game—the Richmond chapter held the biggest
meeting in its history when seventy-two people were
entertained at dinner at the Red Room of Ewarts Cafe-
teria.

Though there were no regularly assigned speakers,
various people were called on to say a few words, particu-
larly Coach Riley Smith and Dean Glover D. Hancock,

visitors from the University.

Officers elected for the coming year: Dr. Dewey
Davis, 1919, President; W. B. Jacobs, 1929, Vice-Presi-
dent; Carleton Jewett, 1921, Treasurer; and E. I. Bost-
wick, 1930, Secretary.

A few among those present were the following:

Bob-Gary, James H. Price, Jr James*H. Price, Sr.,
E,. T. Bethel, Ed Bailey, Col. LeRoy Hodges, Chas. W.
Moss;: J.-H. Jacobs, Dr. R. 1. Simpson, John B.: Sim-
mons, A. G. Briggs, T. B. Harris, Dr. L. T. Stoneburner,
Lewis Martin, Ed Boze, M. J. Fulton, Ds.<Ramon D:
Garein, Jr., Frank W. Harrelson, Dr. A, A. Houser, Dr.
R. W. Fowlkes, Gregory Pettigrew, R. A. Dementi, W.
J. Longan, A. C. Broders, Jr., Dr. W. A. Shepherd, M.
C. Rider, Wyatt French, R. P. Carter, Dr. A: M. Wash.

Joe Sharove, H. W. MacKenzie, F. M. Pollock, Jack
Thomas, Hugh McNew, S. A. Anderson, R. W. Jor-
dan, Jr., Dr. L. EF. Jarretts..O. M. Stumpt, Park Rouse,
R. E.. Steele, G. Watson James, Dr. T. D. Davis, Geo. E.
Haw, C. H. Morrissette, Carleton E. Jewett, E. I. Bost-
wick.

Charleston The Charleston Alumni Associa-

tion held its annual football smok-
er on the eve of the West Virginia game, October 31, at
the Edgewood Country Club.

Approximately forty alumni were present. The Uni-
versity was represented by R. A. Smith, Director of
Athletics, and Cy Young, Alumni Secretary. Football
movies of recent games played by the Generals were
shown and were very much enjoyed.

The following officers were elected for the coming
year: John Capito, ’38, President; W. Goodridge Sale,
24, Vice-President; Norman Fitzhugh, Jr., ’35, Secre-
tary; and Jay Schwabe, ’28, Treasurer.

: The Washington Alumni Chap-
Washington ter held its annual smoker in the
English Room of the Raleigh Hotel on Wednesday even-
ing, November 19. Cy Young and Jack Hennemier were
present from the University. Moving pictures of the Ken-
tucky and Virginia games were enjoyed by all present.
The following officers were elected for the coming year:
Brian Bell, ’11, President; W. Olin Burtner, ’17, Vice-
President ; Alex M. Walker, ’20, Secretary.

Among those present were: Sherman Henderson, ’41;
John A. Hanley, III, ’34; Frank Adams, ’28: George F.
Ashworth, ’30; Brian Bell, 11; Capt. Rudolph Bumgard-
ner, ’35; W. Olin Burtner,’17; Madison P. Coe, ’15;
Metville B..Cox;’31:-F, Po Guthrie, 112 Colas @ Fie
ris, 32; Fanning M. Hearon,’27; Joseph M. Holt, ’25;
L. C. Hernandez, 41; Franklin Hynson, ’41; Richard W.
Hynson, 08; H. Wise Kelley, ’13; Eugene E. Krewson,
’35; E. R. Massis, Jr.,’34; Felix Nesbitt Morrison, ’29;
Wilson M. Roach, ’25; Zachary B. Rogers, ’27; Leonard
B. Ranson, ’12; David E. Strain, ’30; Charles F. Suter,
’33; A. DawsonTrundle, ’04; Alex M. Walker, ’20: FE. T.
Whitehead, ’39; Norman M. Yonan, ’20; Cy oun: 17.
and Jack Hennemier.

The Charlotte Chapter met on the
Charlotte evening of November fifth at the

Hotel Charlotte with President Jack Crist, ’13, presiding.

A membership of about thirty attended the meeting
and were reported to have enjoyed themselves enthusias-
tically, according to A. Murat Willis, Jr., ’38, secretary of
the chapter.

Talks by Frank J. Gilliam, ’17, dean of students at
Washington and Lee, and Professor Walter Flick, ’24, of
the department of psychology, were the feature of the
evening.

 

W. Ross McCarn, president and a director of the

Aetna Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, has |

been elected a director of the Chemical Bank and Trust

Company of New York. Mr. McCain is a director and |
officer of several other insurance companies and is a_ |

trustee of the Mechanics Savings Bank of Hartford.

 

WILLIAM CARY BRECKINRIDGE, 1941, is in the United |

States army. His home address is Fincastle, Virginia.

[41]

 

| |
i

I
i
il
|

   
    
  

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

NOTHER of the “Lee boys,’ The Right Reverend

James Ridout Winchester, retired bishop of the
Protestant Episcopal diocese of Arkansas, died on Octo-
ber 27 at the home of his daughter, Mrs. John EF. Mont-
gomery, in Chicago.

A member of the guard of honor at the funeral of
General Lee in 1870, Bishop Winchester attended the
Protestant Episcopal Semin- ,
ary at Alexandria after re-
ceiving his A. B. here, and
graduated therefrom in 1877.
He was ordained a deacon in
that year and a priest in 1878.

Bishop Winchester was
born in Annapolis, Mary-
land, eighty-nine years ago,
and his long life was a very
full one. For fifty-three years
he was an active clergyman,
having been for five years
sector “of . Calvary. (Church
in Memphis before being
called to Arkansas as Bishop
Coad juton iy 1911 ; and for
twenty years Bishop of Ark-
ansas, Fie retired m 1931--He
was a trustee of the Un1-
versity of the South, Sewa-
nee, Tennessee, and this insti-
tution awarded him an hon-
orary degree of Doctor of
Divinity. in 1893 as did
Washington and Lee in 1894.

During the Spanish-American War Bishop Win-
chester was chaplain of the Ist Tennessee Volunteers
and at one time was chaplain of the Arkansas Society,
Sons of Confederate Veterans. He was active in fraternal
organizations and was past grand prelate of the Knights
Templar, past grand prelate of the United States Red
Cross of Constantine, past noble grand of the Independ-
ent Order of Odd Fellows, and a thirty-third degree
Mason. In college he was a member of Delta Kappa
Epsilon (which fraternity then had a chapter on this
campus) and of the Washington Literary Society whose
Debater’s Medal he won in 1874.

He traveled widely, visiting Europe, Turkey, Egypt,

 

[ 12 |

 

The late Bishop James R. Winchester, 1874

  
  
 
 
   
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   

and Palestine. In his travels he made a special study of
archaeology. j

At his bedside when he died were Mr. and Mra
Montgomery; a son, Lee Winchester of Memphis, and
a grandson, James Winchester Montgomery. The Bish.
op’s wife, the former Eliza Atkinson Lee, died
the second day of August, five years ago.

In Bishop Winchester,
Washington and Lee has lost.
not only one of its oldest a
most eminent alumni but one. ‘
of its most faithful and most
helpful as well. ,

 

1913

EDWARD WEEKS LEE, fork
the last twelve years secretary
of the New York Associam
tion, died at his home in Port
Washington, Long Island,’
New York, on October 26th.
He was fifty-one years old. q
At the time of his death:

he was an insurance broker
associated with the Equitable
Life Assurance Society. /
A native of New Iberia,
Louisiana, Mr. Lee attended
Jefferson Military College,
Washington, Mississippi, be
fore coming to Washingt
and Lee. ‘During the firsm
World War he was a lieutenant in the United States Navy”
and afterwards he was in the Naval Reserve for several”
years. He was a mason and a member of the Virginians. »

 

 

1910 j

GILBERT EucENE Pence, Sr., died at his home im)
Woodstock, Virginia, November 11, 1941, after a long”
illness. Mr. Pence served as mayor of Woodstock and™
Commonwealth’s Attorney of Shenandoah County. He
took his L,.L,.B. at Washington and Lee in 1910 and
was awarded the Orator’s Gold Medal of the Washing
ton Literary Society in his senior year.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class’

‘Notes

 

1892

Hace Houston is living in
Lexington, Virginia. He is su-
pervising the construction of the
new intramural field at Wash-
ington and Lee

 

W. Go WEGEESWORTH 18

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

dale Place, N.W., Washington,
D. C. He has held many con-
sular posts with the American
Foreign Service.

Ernest Ripy lives in Law-
renceburg, Kentucky.

1899

 

 

president of the Wiglesworth

Tobacco Warehouse Company, Kentucky.

Cynthiana,

1893

Dr. JAmEs B. Buttirv is in charge of the pathologic-
al laboratory at the University of North Carolina, and 1s
kept busy with his work, golf, and interest in his five
erandchildren.

H. A. ALBiméHT lives in echhae Mississippi. He
is still much interested in young people and sports, as h2

says, “never having put away childish things.”

Pirny FisHspurn lives in Waynesboro, Virginia.

P. M. Kistver is practicing law in the Exchange Na-
tional Bank Building, Colorado Springs, Colorado.

EriyjAH FUNKHOUSER is still building appraisal en-
gineer for Chicago and Cook County, and spends part
of his time at ‘“Elmavido Heights,” his Virginia home
near lexington.

1896

FRANK FALLon is a successful florist in Roanoke,
Virginia. Many of the flowers used at Washington and
Lee functions come from his greenhouses. o,

James W. La?rromus is practicing law
in Wilmington, Delaware, with offices in
the Citizens Bank Building. He is the 1941

st

 

melts

Joun Wawnroy GARROW
lives at 19 Courtland Place, Houston, Texas. His son,
John W., Jr., is in his senior year at Washington and Lee.

Dr. S. C. Linp is Dean of The School of Chemistry
of the University of Minnesota Institute of Technology
Minneapolis.

H. St. Grorck TucKER CARMICHAEL, member of the
University Board of Trustees, has a son in the fresh-
man class at Washington and Lee this year.

A. SEDDON JONES, Jr., is Division Sales Manager of
the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, Richmond,
Virginia. He lives on his farm at FEllerson, Hanover
County, Virginia.

1900

Dr. Sam McPHEETERS is practicing his profession
in Goldsboro, North Carolina. His address is 1014 Ever-
green Avenue.

Lynwoop R. HotMEs is manager of Furness, Withy
and Company, Ltd., Steamship Owners and Agents, Pub-
lic Ledger Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He has
been with this company for the past
eighteen years.

1902

Osman E. Swartz is practicing law

  
   

Class Agent for 1896. ie rl \ in Charleston, West Virginia, devoting
aN = cn “tf uM practically all of his time to corporate rep-
Co 3 Parte)

1898

CoLONEL WarREN WHITSIDE is
charge of the Army Remount Station,
Front Royal, Virginia.

 

alu

in

H. B. Ripy is in the Internal Revenue “él iG
Bureau and is located in Washington, D. C. ==

 
 

  
  

resentation, principally United Carbon
Company, for which he is general counsel.

J. Morrtson HutcHESON is practicing
medicine in Richmond, Virginia, with of-
fices in the Professional Building. He is a
member of the University Board of Trus-
Wil” tees and a frequent visitor to the campus.

 

 
 

a

 
  

His 1 lial == iH
home is at 1425 Rhode Island Avenue. “Halil oe = vat Wsm ELIS SON is now in his second year in the
: allie SZ wi ; :
ALBAN G. SNYDER lives at 1820 Clydes- wil eA Lae University.

[13 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University v

1903

D. V. Gururis is head of the Department of Chem-
istry, Louisiana State University, University, Louisiana.
He has been devoting most of his time to physics in the
past few years since a modern observatory was installed
about two years ago.

Grorcre H. Lee says, “In my forty years with the
Pittsburgh Screw and Bolt Corporation I have had many
busy ones, but none to compare with this one. Mrs. Lee
and I are well, our children are happily married and we,
like all parents, are quite proud of them.”

Sruart CHEVALIER is still practicing law in New
York at 20 Exchange Place, and in Los Angeles in the
Title Insurance Building. He spends about half his time
in each place.

Dr. Cary R. Barn, after thirty-one years in home
mission work in the Kentucky mountains, has made a
change to home mission work in North Carolina and is
located at Ellerbe. He has a wife and two fifteen-year-
old children, twins, and a small daughter of seven.

1904

Grorce CARRINGTON MosELy is Professor of Social
Studies, Boys High School, Atlanta, Georgia. He has
taught for five years in the summer school of Emory
University. He is married and has one daughter.

THE REVEREND Mr. Lyte Morrerr is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church, McDowell, Highland County, Vir-
y § y

ginia.
JAMES Preston lives in Lewisburg, West Virginia.

Mayor Joun McCcvrs is head of the department of
chemistry, New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, New
Mexico. He says that Dr. Leroy Thompson, of his class,
is his spiritual adviser.

1906

Ep Lea Davis is a member of the Rose-Davis Realty
Company, Chattanooga, ‘Tennessee.

CuHartes Aucustus DunLap is living in Wellington,
Kansas.

J. W. Eccieston is one of the justices of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals of Virginia. His address is 301
City Hall Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

H. CLaupeE Poss’ is practicing law in Grundy, Vir-
ginia. He says the most interesting member of his fam-
ily now is a grandson, nearly four years of age. His oldest
son is an electrical engineer employed by the Appalachian

sat

©
Electric Power Company in Welch, West Virginia. His,
youngest son is eighteen years old and has just finished
high school. Mr. Pobst’s associate lawyer is a lady wht
graduated two years ago from the University of Virginia,

 

1907 “a

By D. W. M. MacCvukrr, Class Agent

WituiaM R. J. DuNN (Route 4, Cahaba Road, Bire
mingham, Alabama). Unfortunately there was a hole tor
in this letter and so we cannot give the name of the fort
he built. The letter says, “Have been busy on defense con-
struction work and built Ft. M...1..n and now we are
building the Anniston iitaches Depot. All hair lett,
(Editor: What does he mean by all hair left? Does he
have it all or has it all left him?) Weight 215.” «

a

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 

I. P. GassmMAn (Arcade Manufacturing Compan$,
Freeport, Illinois) “I am still hanging out at the old
stand, having given up active law practice to go int
the manufacturing business in the late fall of 1918.
have been living in Freeport since January, 1912. M
weight is now about the best I have ever had—180-pound
stripped, with very little waist line. Trout fishing opefis
here about the middle of the month (May) I do mor
golfing than anything else for recreation; though a littl
hunting and fishing during the proper seasons.”’

G. W. Keer (Huntington-Oklahoma Gas Com
pany, Huntington, West Virginia) says: “Am engage@
in natural gas business. We are producers and sell our
product to the utilities. By profession I was a pharmacist,
first in Virginia and later in West Virginia. I was half
owner in the Frederick Pharmacy under the ownershiy
of the Keller Drug Company. In 1916 I sold out my ing
terest so I could devote all my time to my natural gatj»
business. The only prize I could hope for in our clas
would be for the ‘bald pate.’ We have a son 20 year:
old. He entered W&L, in 1939. He was taking rather
heavy course and this year had qualitative and quantita)
tive chemistry. He heartily disliked it. He wants to stud
for the diplomatic service. Dean Tucker advised him t
take up his work at Marshall College, this city, and re
turn to Washington and Lee this coming fall so he coul
enter with a certain standing at that time.”

J. O. Kwnorr of 3611 Fourteenth Street, N.
Washington, D. C., got his Ph.D. from Washington an
Lee in 1907. He is now a research worker for the Librar
of Congress. He has crossed the Atlantic about thirty
times, being a lecturer on the big Atlantic steamers. “‘h
one of my tours, I was permitted to be present by th
grace of the Egyptian Government, when the lid of thq

[ 14 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Tut-ankh-Amen sarcophagus was lifted, and to be one
of four to see the great sight first.’’

I. L. LLEWELLYN, Pastor of the Methodist Church,
Stuart, Virginia, says: “Am just a plain parson, serving
a happy and successful pastorate here in Stuart for my
third year. Have one wife, one child, one vocation
(preaching), one avocation (fishing), one passion (to
serve), one eternal hope (Heaven).”

1908

Marvin CopENHAVER is Secretary-Treasurer of the
Marion Hardware and Supply Company, Marion, Vir-
einia.

Puitip Pace is with the Chicago Journal of Com-

merce, 12 Fast Grand Avenue. His oldest boy, Philip, Jr.,
is a freshman at Washington and Lee this year.

J. C. Carpenter, Jr., is president of the First Na-
tional Bank, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

Pryton Hopson is a member of the law firm of Har-
man, Francis and Hobson, First National Bank Build-
ing, Pikeville, Kentucky.

Rospert R. Gray is the Minister of the Union and
Salem Presbyterian Churches, Union, West Virginia.

H. R. Mauter is Superintendent of Schools, Thom-
asville, Georgia.

'T. RussELL CATHER is practicing law in Winchester,
Virginia.
JAMEs K. GuTHRIE Is practicing medicine in Martins-

burg, West Virginia. His address is 118 West Martin
Street.

Hiram Dow, Attorney General of New Mexico, af-
ter a short visit to Lexington in the early spring, has
made the firm resolve to return to Lexington more fre-
quently.

CHARLES 'T. RANDOLPH is practicing law in Carmi,
Illinois, a country town of about 4,000.

1909

CHARLES S. GLASGow is practicing law in Lexing-
ton, Virginia. He reminds his class agent that 1909 has
been like Ben Adhem practically every year in the matter
of contributions to the Class Agent Fund—‘And lo Ben
Adhem’s name led all the rest.”

CarL Hinton give his address as 216 Main Street,
Hinton, West Virginia.

Jamers H. Prick ends his term this year as governor
of Virginia. His son, James H., Jr., received his B.S. de-
gree from the University last Finals.

STAFFORD CALDWELL is practicing law in the Profes-
sional Building, Tallahassee, Florida.

1910

CuHar_tes P. (“CHuck”) Ropinson is president of
The Better Business Service Company, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania. He is proud of the fact that he is now a grand-
father and wonders how many members of his class have
achieved the same distinction.

COW.) Bini) Srreit is vice-president Girth
Southern Cement Company, Birmingham, Alabama.

W. L. TiLpEN is practicing law in the State Planters
Bank Building, Orlando, Florida.

ORANGE W. RicHArpDsON is with the Duquesne Lum-
ber Company, wholesale lumber, 803 Columbia Building,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Dr. G. R. Fortson, Susanville, California, says that
for him, the past year has been rather momentous. Last
September he went to British Columbia on a big game
hunt and had lobar pneumonia seventy-five miles up in
the brush: his hospital was a tent, his bed a sleeping bag,
his nurse a carpenter. Thanks to sulfurpyridine he is still
here. Recently he used a rubber hose to syphon lead
gasoline out of his car tank to fill an outboard motor, and
from this procedure got a toxic lead poison that he hoped
would end him before it was finished.

I9il

Epwarp FE. Brown is Agent for the Penn Mutual
Life Insurance Company, Chattanooga Bank Building,
Chattanooga, Tennessee. He had a slight accident in the
spring which incapacitated him for several weeks, but
he has now entirely recovered.

F. S. JoHNson is still with E. I. DuPont de Nemours
and Company, Wilmington, Delaware.

Rosert P. BEAMAN is president of the National

Bank of Commerce, Norfolk, Virginia. He was selected
as the First Citizen of Norfolk in 1940.

W. T. NEEL gives his address as P.O. Box 507, Bryn
Mawr, Pennsylvania.

W. F. Bianton is County Judge of Dade County,
Miami, Florida.

J. Tom Watson is now Attorney General of the

[15]

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

State of Florida, having succeeded another Washington
and Lee alumnus, Judge J. Cooper Gibbs, LL.B., 1903.

1912

Lioyp R. CraiGHILL, now Bishop Craighill, is with
The American Church Mission, District of Anking,
China. He was due for furlough this summer, but with
things so uncertain in the Far Fast he says it looks as 1f
he will have to “stick around” a while longer. His wife
and children were evacuated to the States last January.

Howarp A. Doss gives his address as 6600 W. 5th
street, Los Angeles, Califorum.

ArRLos J. HERBERT was elected in November, 1940,
for his third four-year term as judge of the Criminal
Court of Harrison County, West Virginia. His home is
at 489 Washington Avenue, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

J. Franx Key is secretary and general manager of
the Columbian Paper Company, Buena Vista, Virginia.

Francis J. HEAzEL is a member of the law firm of
Heazel, Shuford and Hartshorn, Asheville, North Caro-
lina.

Witir1am J. WiLcox is practicing law in Allentown,
Pennsylvania. He has a son who is in his third year at
Washington and Lee.

1915

S. C. RosE owns and operates a large farm near West
Point, Mississippi, known as Roselands. He lives in the
town of West Point, where he has other business inter-
ests, including a nine-hole golf course.

W. Taytor THom, Jr., Blair Professor of Geology,
Princeton, is helping with the development of courses in
Geological Engineering, besides taking part in various
field researches in the Rocky Mountain-Yellowstone
Park region during the summer.

Harvey B. AppERSON is Representative of the ‘T'wen-
ty-first Senatorial District of the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia. His offices are in the Boxley Building, Roanoke,
Virginia.

Joun G. Hvurron is still in the general practice of
law at Sheridan, Wyoming.

GrorcE West DIEHL is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church of Corpus Christi, Texas. He reports a
busy life with a large church and many outside activities.

1914

R. P. (“Bop”) Hopson is a member of the law firm port, Tennessee. He has a son, Charles T’. Herndon,

[ 16 |

      
     
   
   
     
    
 
    
     
   
    

of Woodward, Dawson and Hobson, Kentucky Home
Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky. His son is a Senior
in the Law School this year. 4

ALEX M. Hitz was elected president of the Washin
ton and Lee Alumni Chapter of Atlanta, Georgia, at ; its
spring meeting. Mr. Hitz is practicing law with offices jpn
the Citizens and Southern Bank Building, Atlanta. Hig
son is in his second year at the University.

Dr. JuLtAN W. SELIG, optometrist, has been living j
his home town since leaving Washington and Lee exce
for a short time in Richmond and the war period. His
dress is 511 East Main Street, Elizabeth City,
Carolina.

SAM LAUGHLIN, JrR., is president of the Wheel
Tile Company, Wheeling, West Virginia.

1915

Ropert McGrHEE is Regional Director of Religio
Education for the Synod of Louisiana. This is closin
out the tenth year of his work. Last summer he receive
the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity from South
western. He has four boys, two in Louisiana College and
two still in high school.

Witt H. Sirs has been in the business of produ
ing oil in Southern Oklahoma for the past twenty-
years. He has one daughter, now ready for college,
hopes to send her to Virginia so that he will have
excuse to return here often. His address 1s 686 Ardmo
Oklahoma.

Mapison P. Cor says he has been living in Wash:
ington, D. C., since his release from the army at the el
of the war. He has not acquired a wife. His address
1735 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W.

TAYLOR STUKES is an associate justice of the Supre I
Court of South Carolina. His family consists of a wife
a daughter who entered Agnes Scott College this fall, a
a boy who is a second year high school student.

K. L.. SairK, Class Agent for 1915-L, is pracum
law at 33 North Duke Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvan
He has a son in the sophomore class.

Witiiam H. Oast is a member of the law firm 0}
Oast, Oast and Oast, Portsmouth, Virginia. His son Wih
liam H., Jr., is a sophomore in the University this yea

1916

Cuarvts T’. HERNDON is still practicing law in Kin

—

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

in his fourth year at Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, and a daughter, Jean, in her second year at
Virginia Intermont College, Bristol, Virginia.

GrorcE D. (“SHorty’) SHORE is a member of the
law firm of McLeod and Shore, Sumter, South Carolina.

Paut R. Scorr is a member of the law firm of Loftin,
Calkins, Anderson and Scott, * P.O. Box 1069, Miami,
Florida. His offices are in the Ingraham Building.

EpmuND Macerrs is Assistant Chief Examiner, De-
partment of Audits, State Capitol, Atlanta, Georgia.

Sam KoHEN is Adjudication Officer of the Veterans
Administration, having jurisdiction over most of Texas,
and lives at Waco. This is the fourth largest office in the
United States. He has a daughter about three years old
who has developed into an important part of his life.

Lewis TwyMan is still practicing law under the firm
name of ‘T'wyman Brothers, 999 Southwest First Street,
Miami, Florida.

J. Rivers MANNING Is president of the National Loan
and Insurance Company, Incorporated, Roanoke Rapids,
North Carolina.

J, C. Rivers: cives his address as 315..West. 9/th
Street New York City.

Harrison P.:-MacrupkEr, Class Agent for 1916, is
living at 326 N. Main Street, Woodstock, Virginia.

Horner C. FisHesr, after returning home from the
“World War No. I,” went to the Harvard Law School,
where he took his LL.B., and then practiced law in Iowa
for one year. He then went to Florida where he is a mem-
ber of the firm of Fisher and Hamner, Harvey Building,
West Palm Beach. He is married and has a daughter.

TED SuuLrz has been with the Tennessee Valley
Authority since 1934, in labor relations work, which is a
part of the personnel program. His oldest daughter, Vir-
ginia, is in China, Ming Hsien Schools at Chin T’ang—
sent out in August 1940 from Oberlin College to teach
there for three years. She graduated from Oberlin in
June, 1940. His second daughter is in training as a nurse,
and he has a daughter and son in high school.

1917

R. H. (“Bos”) Garpner has returned to Washington
for the period of the Defense Program in order to put
before the War and Navy Departments the products of
the A. M. Byers Company with which he is associated.
They make wrought iron and steel products.

Cot. C. R. STRIBLING, superintendent of Missouri
Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri, wrote in May that
he still held a reserve commission and was somewhat un-
certain as to his exact status under the mobilization plan
of the War Departmenet.

Dr. R. GLENN Crate is practicing gynecology in San
Francisco and is Assistant Clincial Professor of Obstet-
rics and Gynecology at Stanford University.

Jimik Les is still Managing editor of Chemical En-
gineering, a McGraw-Hill publication.

Lycurcus Hyre is practicing law in Buchannon,
West Virginia.

J. SEYBERT HaNseEL, mayor of Monterey, Virginia,
is married and has two boys and one girl.

C. R. Hitt is president of the Merchants and Miners
National Bank of Oak Hill, West Virginia. He was re-
cently re-elected mayor of Oak Hill for the eighth con-
secutive two-year term.

Harry V. CampsBeLt has been practicing law in
Charleston, West Virginia, for twenty-one years. He is
a member of the firm of Blue, Dayton and Campbell, with
offices in the Security Building.

L. DEwoopy (“CHuck’”’) LYLE is practicing law in
Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He is manager of the Claim De-
partment of Taylor and Company, largest real estate and
insurance firm in Pine Bluff, and Southeast Arkansas.
He is married but has no children.

GEORGE DANIELSON gives his address as 1021 New
Post Office Building, St. Paul, Minnesota. :

Joun R. Branp is practicing law in Hobbs, New
Mexico. He announces his first grandchild, James Rich-

ard Coburn, II, of Lubbock, Texas.

HERBERT G. PETERS is practicing law in Bristol, Vir-
ginia- Tennessee. His firm is Peters, Lavinder, Peters and
Rouse. He has recently been elected president of the
Bristol Country Club for a second year’s term. He 1s
Appeal Agent for the local Draft Board, a member of the
local School Board, and director of the Washington
Trust and Savings Bank. He is also past president of the
Lion’s Club and of the local Bar Association.

1918

E,. V. Bowyer is company manager of the Roanoke
Gas Company, Roanoke, Virginia. During 1940 his
company had the honor of winning the gas refrigerator
Sales Performance award, Nationally, and National gas
range Best Sales Performance award.

[i

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

JamEs C. AMBLER Is still a director and sales manager
in Ginn and Company, with headquarters at 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York. He married Miss Elsie Carter of
Richmond, and they have two children, a daughter,
Jaguelun, born in 1935,;and a son, James, 4. pore in

1939.

Futton Hocus is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liamson, Hogue and Judson, Title Insurance Building,
433 South Spring Street, Los Angeles, California.

W. P. DANIEL is superintendent of the New Albany
City Schools, New Albany, Mississippi. His son, John,
is in his fourth year at Washington and Lee.

1919

Iv. Howarp McCa.es is a member of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.

HENRY ForKER lives at 447 State Street, Sharon,
Pennsylvania. He is married and has two children, Henry
Porter Forker, III, and Mary Belden Forker. He keeps
busy as secretary-treasurer of the Trustees of The F. H.
Buhl Club, a charitable association holding the various
beneficiaries of his uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
HH. Buhl.

Dr. GiLks S. TERRY is practicing medicine in Scars-
dale, New York. His address is Eton Hall Apartment. He
is married and has a boy eight and a daughter four.

LEONARD Brown, 700 W. Jackson Avenue, Bridge-
port, Connecticut, reports that his town is roaring with
business due to defense operations. He is married and
his daughter, Muriel, is now a student at Edgewood
Park, Briarcliff Manor, New York.

Trep Evan is rector of St. Paul’s Church, Cleveland
Heights, Cleveland, Ohio.

Drwety Davis 1s practicing medicine in the Profes-
sional Building, Richmond, Virginia.

1920

Henry F. Trorrer, judging from a clipping which
one of his friends sent us from the local newspaper, is
one of the leading Pine Bluffians of Pine Bluff, Arkansas.
First among his many interests is his Ford automobile
business. He and his wife were very badly hurt in an
automobile accident early in the spring.

JamEs P. HILt is practicing law in the Atlantic Na-
tional Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida, where he has
been for fifteen years. He is married and has a daughter
nine years old. He says since he has no sons to send to

Washington and Lee, he has persuaded a nephew to en-
roll here this fall.

RAN CABELL commanded a battery of the Virginia
National Guard at Covington, Virginia, for about fifteen
years. Last fall, when the army was expanded, he was
promoted to Lieutenant Colonel and ordered to Fort
Story (four miles north of Virginia Beach) for a year’s
service. His address is 307 Raleigh Drive, Virginia Beach,
Virginia.

Max Broupy is a member of the law firm of Broudy
and Broudy, National Bank of Commerce Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia.

JosEpH T. ENGLEBY, JR., is practicing law in the
Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

ro2t

Gorpon Moss is teaching at Mary Washington Col-
lege, Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Ropert M. HutcHEson gives his address as Box
1031, Roanoke, Virginia.

WitiiaM J. GUENTHER lives at 1224 Parrish Avenue,
Owensboro, Kentucky. He is married and has three girls
aged eight, ten, and twelve. He is doing a little farm-
ing, some hardware business, and venturing a little in the
real estate realm, he says.

Roy GRIMLEy is practicing law at 7 North Broad
Street, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

STANTON B. Hume is with the State Highway De-
partment, Frankfort, Kentucky. Since leaving college he
has worked continuously with this department.

1922

W. J. PaTron was promoted on December 6, 1941,
from assistant cashier of the Chase National Bank of
New York, to assistant comptroller. He has been with

_the bank since 1929.

Wititiam F. McCann is connected with the New
York Central Railroad System, whose service he entered
in 1922. His address is 413 Northview Avenue, New

Castle, Pennsylvania.

Guy CAMPBELL is with the Motor Supply Company,
Monroe, Louisiana.

EDGAR JACKSON lives at 1619 St. Denis Avenue, Nor-
folk, Virginia. He says that he has been gradually ex-
panding in the midriff until he now weighs 198 pounds,
but that he can walk twenty miles in an afternoon with-
out too much soreness the next day.

[ 18 |

  
    
   
 
 
    
    
   
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
  
 
  
   
   

C. O. HAanpbLEy is teaching at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia.

T. K. Fountain is Regimental Adjutant, Head-
quarters 120th Infantry, Ft. Jackson, South Carolina.

<i) »

1923

R. M. CopENHAVER has a refrigerating and dairy
stipply company in Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. He has
two daughters in college.

, SANDERS GUERRANT is in the apple business and is a
life insurance agent in Roanoke, Virginia. He is married
and has a son about five years old.

”

H. S. Harrzoc says he is playing with the printing
business and enjoying it. He is with D’Alroy and Hart,
5944 Gates Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri.

-

JosEpH CALLAWAY is practicing law under the firm
name of Callaway and Brown, Arkadelphia, Arkansas.
He has a wife and three children, the oldest a boy four-
teen ; a girl twelve and the baby six.

_ Av McCartuy is with the law firm of Loftin, Cal-
kins, and Scott, Miami, Florida. He is Class Agent for
923-L.

RocER B. JONEs is the attorney for the Sinclair Re-
fining Company, Kansas City, Missouri. He is married
and has a son eight and a daughter five.

?

, 1924

Academic Notes by Orts Howe, Class Agent

Tom Bemts is in the real estate business in the city of
Prescott, Arkansas. He and Doug (Tiny) also are inter-
ted in the manufacture of lumber. Tom has a wife and
two fine daughters, eleven and nine. French McKnight,
1923, and I had the pleasure of a short visit with him
about a year ago.

Epp1E CAMERON is still connected with athletics at
uke University, where he has made a fine record. He is
married, and Jim Thomas, 1923, tells me they have a
‘P>tautiful home in Durham.

Berry Brooks continues to buy cotton in and around
emphis during the cotton season and travels and hunts
in the summer. He, his wife and daughter, spent last
ummer in Hollywood.

* Ratpu Burcu is assistant manager of the branch of-
ce of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in
harleston, West Virginia. He is married and has a son
ive years old named “Mike.”

' The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Joun T. Bovp also has two daughters. He practices
law in Evansville, Indiana, where he is active in church,
Masonic and civic affairs.

Bos CAMPBELL is still Rector of St. Stephens Episco-
pal Church in Steubenville, Ohio. He is married and re-
ports enthusiastically on the work they are doing.

Jack COoLLINs is associated with his father in the
practice of optometry in Charleston, West Virginia. He
is married and has two daughters.

Joe DAvENPorRT, JR., is a prominent cotton farmer
and merchant of Mer Rogue, Louisiana. We had the
pleasure of a short visit from him in Eastern Arkansas
this summer.

JouNn GUERRANT is a vice-president of the Virginia
Paper Company in Richmond, Virginia, with which com-
pany he has been associated since 1924. He is married
and has a nine-year-old daughter.

Jim SEAts has been promoted to the rank of Captain,
Quartermaster Corps, and is now Officer in Charge of
Supply Branch, Charlotte Quartermaster Depot, Char-
lotte, North Carolina. He says, “this warehouse is a
whopper, as we supply all food for troops in Virginia,
North Carolina, and South Carolina—well over 400,000
men.”

Curis EBERLING, JR., is manager of the Washington
Branch of the United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company, 1415 K. Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

W. CrypE Dennis (“Hicopper’’) is practicing law
in Grundy, Virginia. He is trial justice of his county and
is engaged in legal and insurance work.

S. ArtHur GLicKSTEIN has changed his name and
address. He is now S. Arthur Glixon, Counsellor at Law,
551 Fifth Avenue, New York.

CHARLES F. Barrett, JR., is Lieutenant Colonel in
charge of “the best regiment in the army,” the 179th In-
fantry, 45th Division, Camp Barkeley, Texas. He re-
grets the fact that he seldom crosses the path of his class-
mates at Washington and Lee. He says, “There is a
paucity of them in my part of the country in the first
place and in the second our particular class was just the
right age to miss both wars, so none of them show up
even in such big troop concentrations as we have just
finished.”

1925
By Bruce F. GANNAway, Class Agent

Eart MArrincLy is now treasurer of Washington
and Jee, which assures us that the old Alma Mater will

[ 19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

stay out of the “red.” We extend him our congratulations
on this promotion. Now we feel that he can seriously con-
sider the matter of taking to himself a wife. He’s got to
be honest as a treasurer, so he may as well stop cheating
the girls out of one more good man.

Birt Brock is still running the Brock Candy Com-
pany, and from the amount of his sweets I see in the local
stores, he must be doing a pretty good job.

Puit Howerton writes from Charlotte, where he has
been General Agent for the Connecticut Mutual Life In-
suance Company for the past six years. In 1926 he mar-
ried Miss Lemma Shepherd, a Hollins girl, and they are
the proud parents of a five year old son who should be
laying his books around the Washington and Lee Campus
about 1953.

Dick Bgarp, after 17 years in the flour and milling
business in Birmingham, formed, with his brother, ‘The
National Distributors Company, Incorporated, and the
American Flag and Decorating Company, of 1925 Fifth
Avenue North, Birmingham. They represent manufac-
turers of various items for the states of Alabama, Mis-
sippi, and Georgia. In 1926 Dick married Miss Mary
Emma Pope, of Columbus, Georgia. They have two fine
boys, Richard, Jr., thirteen, and Edward Ewin, seven.
Looks like Dick is pretty good at raising “Beards” and
Washington and Lee will welcome them in a few years.

Mitixpcek Nai is an attorney, practicing in Memphis.
Besides his general practice, he is assistant attorney for
the FCA in five states. Milledge has two boys, ten and
eight, and he says the older is headed for Wilson Field
right now, being able to wear some of his dad’s clothes.

GEoRGE CLARK is practicing law with the firm of
Loftin, Calkins, Anderson and Scott in the Ingraham
Building, Miami, Florida.

JoHN STRAHORN, JR., is a professor in the Law
School of the University of Maryland, Baltimore, Mary-
land.

1926

RussEtt L. Gorpon is now one of Uncle Sam’s sol-
diers. When he wrote in April, he was serving as a corpo-
ral at Camp Croft, South Carolina, but expected to be
transferred within a few weeks. His permanent address,
from which mail will be forwarded, is Firemans Fund
Ins: Co. A-835, Ins.Exc.' Bldg.,: Chicago, [Hineis.

Emmett W. MacCorxtez, who has been with the Air
Reduction Sales Company, Wheeling, West Virginia, is
now a Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve on active duty at
the headquarters of the Fifth Naval District Operating

[ 20 |

  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

Base, Norfolk, Virginia. He was married recent 7
Miss Nelda Reymann, Mt. Holyoke, 1930, of Wheetiy
West Virginia. 3

19027

Jrm Wrrpourn is a member of the law firm of W
bourn, Miller and Wilbourn, Citizens National Ban
Building, Meridian, Mississippi. 3

W. RanpboLtpeH Cossy has been associated with ¢ I
firm of Halsey, Stuart and Company since 1928. His a
dress is 4727 N. Capitol Avenue, Indianapolis, Indian :
He says he has three swell boys and trusts they comple
their education at the best school in the country.

ExLprED CAYCE is general purchasing agent for 1
‘Tennessee Products Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee

Dr. JAmEs T. PATE is superintendent of Duval Cot n
ty Hospital, Jacksonville, Florida. {

19238

Harotp Dosps gives his address as 225 Highw
Avenue, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

Lester A. Brown is practicing medicine in Atla
Georgia, with offices in the Doctors Building. He 1
member of several of the hospital staffs in Atlanta an
does some teaching.

W. D. (“Dick”) Dickerson was appointed to an
ecutive position in the Department of Labor at Atla
Georgia, on April 20,1941. Prior to that time he had b
practicing law in his home town, Douglas, Georgia.
was married in 1938 to Miss Mary Pettit of Cartersv
Georgia, and they have a daughter one year old.

Epwarp H. Mitxer has been in Washington for
past two years as special assistant to the Attorney Gen
eral in connection with the enforcement of the anti-trus
laws. He lives at 301 N. Washington Street, Alexand
Virginia.

R. W. (“Bucx’’) Jorpan is Title Officer of the Law
yers Title Insurance Corporation of Richmond, Virgin i
He has a son, born July 4, 1940, named Russell W
Jordan, III.

Irvin W. Cusine is practicing law in Martinsv!
Virginia.

1929

Ep Mapison, writing on May 8, expected to be calle

to the service at any time. He is a member of the lay

firm of Madison, Madison and Files, with offices in M
roe and Bastrop, Louisiana. He says he is still unmat™

 

|
|
|
|
|

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——
and the outlook is not any brighter in the matrimonial

feld.

Lewis I’. Power, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore, Electric
Building, Richmond, Virginia.

_M. SHACKELForRD is a First Lieutenant, Military
Service-Ord. Res., stationed at Havre de Grace, Mary-

jand.

Wittram B. Lorr is employed in the legal depart-
ment of the Federal ‘Trade Commission and connected
with the Southern Branch office located in New Orleans,
Louisiana. His address is 321 Federal Office Building,

New Orleans.

1 Pp. WricH’? is superintendent of the Great Falls,
South Carolina, public schools. He is married and has a
daughter five years old and a son two years old.

CGrorce M. WricuHr lives in Great Falls, South Caro-

lina.
1930

Ropert W. Mostey is in the wholesale grocery busi-
ness, being office manager of the M-K Wholesale Groc-
ery Company, Conway, Arkansas. He married Eloise
Mull of Mammoth Springs, Arkansas, in 1936. His ad-
dress is 1623 Caldwell Street, Conway, Arkansas.

Dr. Murret H. Kapitan is practicing medicine in
New Orleans, with offices in the Physicians’ and Sur-
geons’ Building.

W. Van Gripert, Class Agent for 1930-A, is practic-
ing law in Athens, Alabama, with offices in the Gilbert-
Gray Building.

Frank O. Evans is practicing law in Milledgeville,
Georgia, with offices in the Kidd Building. He has a son
and heir born November 5, 1940.

Ben Raw itncs is one of the general attorneys of the
United States Steel Corporation of Delaware, 436 Sev-
enth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

ALLEN PENcxK is practicing law in Lexington, Vir-
ginia. He is married and has two children.

1931

Dr. Journ O. McNEEt is connected with the hospital
at the University of Virginia, with visiting privileges;
and assistant director of the Student Health Department.
His address is Box 1745, University, Virginia.

Dr. Reno Porter, when his letter was written in
August, expected to be in the Army by October 1, with

the rank of Captain and located at Lovell General Hos-
pital, Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

Bit, Tattyn is working in a legal capacity with
Beneficial Management Corporation in Newark, New
Jersey. His new address is 500 Park Avenue, East
Orange, New Jersey.

Kart M. Suits is Manager of the Hotel Royal,
Front Royal, Virginia. He was married in the Washing-
ton and Lee Chapel in August, 1940. He came to Front
Royal last June from Swickley, Pennsylvania, where he
was manager of the Elmhurst Inn.

Ratpu P. Gran’ is with the Myers-Arnold Depart-
ment Store, Greenville, South Carolina.

19232

Wittiam D. Hoyt, Jr., is now senior assistant at the
Alderman Library, University of Virginia. He received
his Ph.D. from Hopkins last June and has been writing
various articles on history.

Kemper Jennincs of Melbourne, Florida, is still
with the Macmillan Company, selling textbooks. He mar-
ried Miss Virginia Edwards of Melbourne last Decem-
ber.

Witiram C. Epwarps of St. Louis is still in the ad-
vertising business and happily married.

S. V. Jounson, Jr., is a bachelor and with the law
firm of Aiken, Sanford and Johnson of Danville, Vir-
ginia.

Joun Lapp, of Savannah, Georgia, is with the Water-

man Steamship Agency, Ltd. He was transferred to
Savannah from Mobile last July.

Jack SRuLowI'z is in the Army Medical Corps and
is stationed at Reception Center, Fort Hayes, Columbus,
Ohio. He has been reserve officer in the Medical Corps
since 1936, and had to give up his private practice in Bel-
pre, Ohio, to go into the service. He has a ten-months-
old daughter.

Paut (“Jerry”) Horstein is still practicing law in
Lexington, Virginia. He assisted Cy Young in coach-
ing the lightweight football team. |

Henry Macxenziz is still with the Lawyers’ Title
Insurance Corporation, 1111 East Main Street, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

1933

ALLEN WoFForD is vice-president of Wofford Bro-
thers, Incorporated, Insurance, Johnson City, Tennessee.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University —

He says his status is unchanged: still married, has one
son, still lives at Llewellyn Wood, Johnson City.

Bog Kapitan is with Interstate Stores Company,
Owensboro, Kentucky.

MarsHALt NucKOLs, Jr., is still with the law firm of
Covington, Burling, Rublee, Acheson and Shorb, Union
Trust Building, Washington, D. C. His family remains
the same: two prospective Washington and Lee students
for the classes of °58 and ’60.

JOHN SENSENEY 1s now serving in the Second Arm-
ored Division at Fort Benning. His home address is 14
N. Kingshighway Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri.

M. Hoce (“Mo”) CrkicHTon, JR., is Special Repre-
sentative of the Fidelity and Deposit Company of Mary-
land, 203 Security Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

Birt Symonps lives at 1040 Judson Avenue, Evans-
ton, Illinois. He says, “Things around here are moving
rapidly. Brother Al is now a Pop with Allen D., Jr., three
months old on his hands, and John Culley is also a proud
one—Z months—called John Oliver.” Reports that busi-
ness is booming.

W. GiLBErT FAULK is living in Alexandria, Louisi-
ana. He is with the Alexandria Unit of the Commercial
Investment Trust Corporation of New York, and is still
a bachelor.

GEORGE STROUSE, JR., is practicing law in Norwich,
Connecticut. He is married and has a young son born in

July, 1940.

Core ADAMS is practicing law in Blackstone, Virginia,
with offices in the Citizens Bank and Trust Company
Building.

1934

Joun F. SHropeEr and his wife have just bought a
house in Springfield, Massachusetts. John is an Inspector
at the United States Armory. He has a son two years
old. His address is 174 Gillette Avenue, Springfield, Mas-
sachusetts.

Scott Mosovicu is teaching at Trenton Central High
School, Trenton, New Jersey. He has been married for
about four years.

WaLtER C. JOHNSTON enlisted in the service on
February 21, 1941, in New York City, where he was
working, and 1s now detailed to the Post Intelligence of-
fice, 1209th-SUSC DEML, Pine-Camp, New York, His
home address is 2616 Hanover Avenue, Richmond, Vir-
einia.

[ 22 |

   
    
   
   
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
  

JOEL 5. SNYDER is State Supervisor for East ‘p
nessee and South Carolina of the Fidelity and Depe
Company of Maryland. His address is 622 Ten Pa
Street Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He is still a bachel

Rop Massie, Jr., when his letter was written j in VE
was working in the office of the attorney general, | 3
ence W. Meadows, 1926, in Charleston, West Virgir {
He expected to be called under the Selective Service | \,

THorRNTON G. Berry, JR., is a member of thell le
firm of Strother, Herndon and Berry, Welch, West y;
ginia. He is Prosecuting Attorney of McDowell Cou if
One of his partners, Zeb Herndon, is an A.B. of 1927

1935

RoL_LAND HamiLton Berry is married and living /
a farm near Harrisonburg, Virginia, where he is raisit
a few horses. He has been in his father’s business—gey
eral contracting—since graduation.

BILL SCHUHLE finished his second year in the Jo
Hopkins University Graduate School last spring. H
his plans were indefinite at the time his letter was
ten. However, we have learned that he is teachi
Plaquemine, Louisiana.

Jo— CLEMMER was drafted into the service on M
24, assigned to the Medical Corps, and stationed at
Lee for his training in hospital duty. He wishes his
ington address retained, as his mail will be forwarde

NorMAN FitzHucuH, Jr., Charleston, West Vir
says: “Doing the same business, CPA’ing, for the
firm (my father)......still single......in other words, no
of importance has happened to me this year.”

MEREDITH GRAHAM, JR., is Secretary-Treasur
The State Mutual Insurance Company, Rome, Georgia

J. Howe Lt GLover is an Attorney and Counsellor :
Law, Union City, Tennessee.

A. G. Harwoop, III, is a salesman for Investors 5y
dicate, and reports that prospects for the next few yea
look rosy, unless Uncle Sam gets serious about that qu e
tionnaire. He has recently transferred from Richmon'
Virginia, to the Norfolk Office and is now living at h
home in Williamsburg and working the lower end ott
Virginia Peninsula. He says he is still single but slo
ing down terribly.

1936

Harotp O. DanteLson’s address is 322 Stephens
Building, Detroit, Michigan.

J. J. Harpine, Jr., lives at Emporia, Virginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——
1937

STEPHEN B. L&E has been called into service for the
emergency, and he and his wife are in Connecticut while
he is serving as Commissonary officer at the United
States Submarine Base, New London, Connecticut. He

was married to Helen Louise Hughes on October 7, 1940.

Lamar Rau, when his letter was written in May, was
‘a the Medical School of The University of South Caro-
fina. His home is in Charles Town, West Virginia.

1938

CHARLIE CLARKE is practicing law in Detroit, having
fnished law school at the University of Michigan in the
fall of 1940. He is connected with the law firm of Pres-
cott, Coulter and Baxter.

Catvert THomAS is practicing law in Baltimore,
Maryland, having finished his law work at the University
of Maryland last year. He is an Associate Attorney with
the Legal Aid Bureau. His address is 14 West 25th Street,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Prick BERRYMAN’s address is P.O. Box 313, Fred-
onia, Kansas. He, like so many of his classmates, expected
to be in the service within a short time after his letter was
written in the spring. :

Watpo G. Migs is practicing law with Carter and
Williams of Danville, Virginia.

Harpwick Sruar? is practicing law in the Stuart
Building, Cleveland, ‘Tennessee. He is Class Agent for
1938-L. He is Floterial Representative of Bradley and
Polk Counties and Cleveland, in the Tennessee Legisla-
ture.

1939

Water C. Harpy, Jr., is with the Laird Ofhte
Equipment Company, “Charleston’s Greatest Office
Equipment Store,” Charleston, West Virginia. He has
been connected with the Charleston Junior Chamber of
Commerce and other civic activities.

Grorck VANTA is with Vanta Brothers, Furriers, 345
Seventh Avenue, New York. His home address is 209-43
38th Avenue, Bayside, New York.

Ratpx Sirs is with the law firm of Payne, Ray and
Davis, Kanawha Valley Building, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

Puitip Macruper (“PETE”) GRABILL, after a short
period of practicing law in Woodstock, Virginia, is now
(April, 1940) Private Philip M. Grabill, 1326th Service
Unit, Station Complement, Camp Lee, Virginia.

RicHarp LyMANn (“Dick”) HowELt, in April, 1941,
was a Reserve Midshipman at the Naval Academy, An-
napolis, Maryland. He expected to receive his commis-
sion as Ensign in May. His home address is Box 108,
Grove Park, Roanoke, Virginia.

1940

Joun Newton Harmov, III, is associated in the gen-
eral practice of law with the firm of Strother, Herndon
and Berry, Welch, West Virginia.

James WeEtts HamMeEv?? is in the United States
Navy Air Corps Reserve. His home address is 1104 St.
Vincent Avenue, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Wittram Miter Gwyn, Jr., has recently been
transferred from the Reception Center at Fort Sill to the
Officer Candidate School, Fort Riley, Kansas. He has
been made a Sergeant.

WALTER RUSSELL GUTHRIE expects to enter the army
as a reserve officer in June upon completion of course at
the Harvard Business School. His home address is 4301
Argyle Terrace, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Micuaevt Lours Gitpert has satisfactorily completed
his first year’s work in New York University College of
Medicine and is now in his second year. His residence
address is 21 Coleridge Street, Brooklyn.

GILBERT GARDNER is still with Time and Life, having
been moved to the Public Relations Department for Time,
Inc., in Hartford, Connecticut. He has recently returned
from a two weeks vacation cruise to South America and
the West Indies. His address is 29 1-2 West 12th Street,
New York City.

Ropert Haroitp Gappy is now a Lieutenant at Barks-
dale Field, Louisiana.

S. A. FaLx is with the Mexican Petroleum Corpora-
tion, East Brooklyn, Maryland. His home address is 783
Linnard Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

GRANVILLE Cok Farrikr, JR., is now serving in the
Royal Canadian Air Force. His home address is Byberry
Road and Dupue Street, Somerton, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.

Oscar ENNENGA, JR., was married September 25,
1941, to Marian L,. Kastman of Albany, New York, and
moved to Sioux City, Iowa, as Assistant Manager of the
E. and W. Clothing House. His home address is 3501
Jackson Street, Sioux City, Iowa.

Ropert R. Davis is with Company “G,” 2nd Battal-
ion, 8th Marines, Camp Elhott, California.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Joun JacosB DANGLER will receive his commission in
early December. He is now stationed at a Field,
Panama City, Florida.

M. P. Crockett is Associate Editor of a county
newspaper, The Aegis, Bel Air, Maryland. He is also a
second year student in the University of Maryland Law
School.

Lioyp Roper? Core is with the 13th Reconn. Sqdn.,
Bangor Air Base, Bangor, Maine. His home address is
11 French Avenue, Winchester, Kentucky.

GEORGE WHITE CHENEY, JR., is with the Shenandoah
Life Insurance Company, Roanoke, Virginia.

LAWRENCE E,. Carson is employed in the accounting
department of the Electro Metallurgical Company at
Alloy, West Virginia. His business address is 316 6th
Avenue, Montgomery, West Virginia.

WiLtLt1AM Epcar Bux’ton’s temporary address is
Lieutenant W. F,. Buxton, 32nd Pursuit Squadron, Ponce
Air Base, Ponce, Puerto Rico. His permanent address is
601 South Belvedere, Memphis, Tennessee.

WILLIAM S. BurRNS is an aviation cadet, Naval Air
Base, Jacksonville, Florida. His home address is Lebanon,
Virginia.

Wittiam LeRoy Burner, JR., gives his address as
2603 Seminary Drive, Alexandria, Virginia. He was in
Chicago most of last summer serving on the staff of the
railroads in the current wage negotiations.

EDWARD EMERSON Brown, JR., is a Lieutenant, 181st
Field Artillery, Camp Forest, Tullahoma, Tennessee. His
home address is 1211 Dallas Road, Chattanooga, Tennes-
see.

GEORGE ADAM BRAUN, JR., is affiliated with the Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Company, 290 Elizabeth Avenue,
Newark, New Jersey. His residence address is 38 Eppirt
Street, Kast Orange, New Jersey.

Maurické EucENE Bostwick graduated from Kansas
State College in 1940 with a B.S. in Business Administra-
tion. His address is 1116 Laramie, Manhattan, Kansas.

Lea BootH is with the Press Section, AAA—3727
South Building, Washington, D. C. His residence address
is 1312 16th Street, .N.W., Washirgton, Dy C.

Ricuarp W. BolssEavu says he is entirely too far

from Washington and Lee. His address is 1OApe Cherry
Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

KeitH Wayne Buiinn, 1345 N. Pelnictin aie Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, is now a member of the Wisconsin

[ 24 |

' Hackensack, New Jersey.

  
    
 
   
     
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
    
   
   
 
 
    
 
  
  

Bar. He was married to Miss Ellen Young on Augas
31, 1940. ;

CHARLES TERRY BLANForD has been in Alabama sine
March when he was transferred from the Indiana Ord
nance Works to the Alabama Ordnance Works. Hig . ad.
dress is The DuPont Company, Childersburg, ‘th 14

H. W. BirreENBENDER passed the Florida State Ba
examinations, but has been in the Army since March 7
1941, 265 Coastal. Artillery, Battery B, Fort Crock
Galveston, Texas. 4

FRANK S. BEAZLIE, JR., is in his second year of m
cine at the University of Virginia.

JACKSON GROVER AKIN, JR., is in the second yea
the Law School at Harvard. He is in the Naval Rese
Corps, due to be called in May 1942. His address is 2}
Divinity Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
achusetts.

1941

DoNALD LESTER STEIN is at Camp Wheeler, Geor
His home address is at 235 Hawthorne Avenue, Gleniy
Illinois.

RopertT EDWARD STEELE, III, is Director of Publi
and Instructor in Journalism, Roanoke College, Roa
oke, Virginia.

Hat WaucuH SmirTH is a freshman in the School
Medicine, Medical College of Virginia. His home ad
dress is 130 Fifth Avenue, Montgomery, West Virgi

ALEXANDER SIMPSON, Jr., is in Battery “EF,” 96 h
C.A.(AA), Camp Davis, North Carolina. His permanent.
address is 422 Alden Avenue, Westfield, New Jersey

Macty HerscHeLt RosenrTHAL is a first year stude
at the University of Virginia Medical School.

Ropert Morris RENicK is in the Air Corps of
army, stationed at Patterson Field, Dayton, Ohio. Hi
residence address is 800 S. Main Street, Middletown, —
Ohio. |

EMIL CHARLES RASSMANN, III, is a Selectee in
army. He gives his address as 4170 N. Pennsylva
Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.

CLIFFORD HEwEtTSoN MULLER, JR., is a flying ca
in the U. S. Air Corps, stationed at Goodfellow Fie
San Angelo, Texas. His mailing address is Box

Witt1am Brownson Mizz is now a medical student
at Washington University Medical School, St. Louis,
Missouri.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

— te

mgomAs Lewis Martin is in the Duke University

Medical School.

Rosert EpmuND LEE has a teaching fellowship in
mathematics at Vanderbilt University and expects to get
his M.A. next June.

Guy Otis KELLER, JR., is a medical student at the
University of Virginia.

Ricard Mippretron HeErnpon is doing graduate
work at Haverford College in the field of government.
His address is 4 College Circle, Haverford, Pennsylvania.

FREDERICK BREAKSPEARE FarrAR is with Vogue
Magazine, Conde Nast Publications, 420 Lexington
Avenue, New York City. He holds the position of
“Gourmet’s Guide.”

MircHeELL Keira Disney is in the Harvard Law
School. He says he will be there until either graduation or
the army catches up with his number.

JouN EMANUEL DELEHANTY is a cadet at the Naval
Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida.

THEODORE AUGUST BRUINSMA is now a student at
the Harvard Law School.

THoMAS SWEARER BRIZENDINE received his com-
mission as 2nd Lieutenant in U.S.M.C.R. on November
1. 1941. His home address is 210 Main Street, Green-
ville, Kentucky.

Witt1am JAMES Douctas is with the Fidelity Union
Trust Company, Equitable Building, Newark, New Jer-
sey. His home address is 58 Summit Road, Elizabeth,
New Jersey.

Ropert LAWRENCE VAN WAGONER 1s employed by
the Department of Justice, Washington, D. C. His ad-
dress is 900 Security Building, Los Angeles, California.

Rosert Byrp Espy is teaching at the Episcopal High
School, Alexandria, Virginia. He expects to be in the
army after June, 1942.

LYNELL GRIFFITH SKARDA is law clerk to Judge Sam
G. Bratton, United Circuit Court of Appeals, 10th Dis-
trict, Federal Building, Albuquerque, New Mexico. His
home address is 223 S. Harvard Avenue, Albuquerque.

Grorcr Francis McINERNEY is a cadet at Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma. His residence address is 122 Caudee
Avenue, Sayville, New York.

Ratpu Epwarp K&gun was drafted into the Army
Air Corps on August 13, 1941, and sent to Sheppard
Field, Texas, as part of the permanent personnel.

GrorcE Murray SMIrH, Jr., is practicing law with
his father in Richmond, Kentucky. |

RoBERtT SMIMLER Boyce is an aviation cadet, Basic
School Air Corps, Goodfellowship Training Field, San
Angelo, Texas.

HASKELL TYNDALL DICKINSON is with the 4th Pla-
toon, Company C, 32 Battalion, Group 6, E.R.T.C., Fort
Leonard Wood, Missouri. ,

CLirForD BoLies Curtis, JR., gives his business ad-
dress as U. S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida,
but asks that his mail be sent to 311 Marlboro Road,
Englewood, New Jersey.

WitiiAmM BucHANAN is with The News, Lynchburg,
Virginia, but expects to be in the army within the next
month or two. His home address is 448 Avondale Drive,
Danville, Virginia.

Ropert JAMES BLANDINE has changed his address to
427 Grove Street, East Lansing, Michigan.

 

Weddings

Following is the list of fall weddings that have come
to the attention of this office, printed here with our con-
eratulations to all concerned:

1936

Davap GIOVANNI BasiLE to Miss June Webb on
November 5th at the Beech Street Baptist Church, Tex-
arkana, Arkansas.

1937

Emerson Dickman, Jr., to Miss Constance Joannes
on October 22 at St. Aedans Church, Jersey City, New
Jersey.

NorMAN Perry Iver to Miss Lillian Drake on No-
vember 22nd at the Parkland Baptist Church, Louisville,
Kentucky.

1938

GILBERT CAMPBELL Taytor to Miss Nancy Erken
Brack Colman on November 8th in New York City. Mr.
and Mrs. Taylor will be at home after the first of Decem-
ber at 124 East 91st Street.

1939

THOMAS SARGENT Parrott to Miss Ann Cromwell
Glover on November 15th at Newnan, Georgia.

Spence Emit Kerxow to Miss Martha Elliott Craig
on October 18th at Franklin, Tennessee.

 

