he
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

MAY, 1948

 

- 4 7 sR s a
4 = To y ‘ - ,
F A ; ‘
p " if | ae °
. I 7 y - q -
- Me 7 “
y 4 Ds t be rd :
: : aed f
Pie > 2 eee Cle J a 4

 

 

Class Agents for 1948

1892 —Dr. E. L. Green, 328 Sims Avenue, Columbia, S. C.

1893 —B. A. Judd, Van Alstyne, Texas.

1894 —E. P. Coles, 501 Commercial National Bank Build-
ing, Charlotte, N.C.

1895 —Rev. C. J. Boppell, 2666-37th Avenue, S. W., Seattle
6, Washington.

1896 —Marion W. Ripy, 4 E. 43rd St., New York 17, N.Y.

1897 Edward Wohlwender, 209 Murray Building, Colum-
bus, Georgia.

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 221 W. Tuscaloosa Street, Flor-
ence, Alabama.

1899 —Dr. James A. McClure, 617 Ninth Avenue, So., St.
Petersburg, Florida.

1900 —

1901 —Dr. R. Waller Blain, 203 South Main St., Sainte
Genevieve, Missouri.

1902 —Volney M. Brown, State National Bank Building,
105 South Oregon Street, El Paso, Texas.

1903 —R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

1904 —J. B. Akers, 3415 Fulton Street, N. W., Washington
fF TE

1905 —Judge Walter G. Riddick, 2416 Wolfe, Little Rock,

Arkansas.

1906 —Judge John W. Eggleston, 301 City Hall Building,
Norfolk 10, Virginia.

1907 —Dr. A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Florida.

1908-A—Abram D. Somerville, P.O. Box 387, Cleveland,
Mississippi.

1908-L—Alonzo B. McMullen, P. O. Box 1772, Tampa 1, Fla.

1909-A—Dr. J. W. Claudy, Rockview Farm Prison, RFD No.
3, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.

1909-L—Judge Daniel K. Sadler, Supreme Court, Santa Fe,
New Mexico.

1910-A—Hamilton A. Derr, Vanguard Paints & Varnishes,
Inc., Marietta, Ohio.

1910-L—Orange W. Richardson, 803 Columbia Building,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

1911-A—L. L. Humphrey, Box 431, Duncan, Oklahoma.

1911-L—Roger M. Winborne, 209 Highland Avenue, Lenoir,
North Carolina.

1912-A—Dr. Edward Lyons, 1331 East Boundary Street,
Gainesville, Florida.

1912-L—J. Blackburn Watts, Watts, Poffenberger & Bowles,
Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1913-A—Dr. William T. Hanzsche, 347 Spring Street, Tren-
ton, New Jersey.

1913-L—Hon. Ryland G. Craft, Gate City, Virginia.

1914-A—Henry N. Barker, 6 Sixth Street, Bristol, Tennessee.

1914-L—Merriman S. Smith, P. O. Box 633, Bluefield, W. Va.

1915-A—Rev. James E. Bear, Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Virginia.

1915-L—Loring C. Kackley, P.O. Box 66, Berryville, Va.

1916-A—David A. Falk, Box 2940, Tampa 1, Florida.

1916-L—E. B. Rose, 537 N. Broadway, Lexington, Kentucky.

1917-A—Dr. R. Glenn Craig, 490 Post Street, Room 521, San
Francisco, California

1917-L—Herbert G. Peters, Peters, Lavinder, Peters & Rouse,
Attorneys-at-Law, Bristol, Virginia.

1918 —John L. McChord, 2924 Carlton Road, Shaker
Heights, Ohio.
1919 —Dr. C. Houston Patterson, 315 Stowers Street, Blue-

field, West Virginia.
1920-A—James P. Hill, Atlantic National Bank Building,
Jacksonville, Florida.
1920-L—Fred D. Townsend, 929 King Street, Columbia, S. C.
1921-A—John L. Patterson, 304 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.
1921-L—R. C. Wood, Peoples National Bank, Lynchburg,
Virginia.
1922-A—Troy C. Musselwhite, P. O. Box 2848, Orlando, Fla.
1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 North Irving Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia.

1923-A—Thomas Jean Ellis, 102 South Monroe Street, Tal-
lahassee, Florida.

1923-L—Robert H. Carr, R. H. Carr Lumber Company, Jas-
per, Alabama.

1924-A—Howard D. Leake, 314 Edgewood Boulevard, Bir-
mingham 9, Alabama.

1924-L—J. Melvin Lovelace, Box 253, American Bank and
Trust Company Building, Suffolk, Virginia.

1925-A—Vernon J. Kreienbaum, Greenville Manufacturing
Company, Emporia, Virginia.

1925-L—Luther L. Copley, 1117-1118 Pan American Bank
Building, Miami, Florida.

1926-A—Carl B. Knight, Big Stone Gap, Virginia.

1926-L—Earle A. Cadmus, New Kirn Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1927-A—George E. Burks, 402 Washington Building, Louis-
ville, Kentucky

1927-L—Leslie Storey Stemmons, 401 Republic Bank Build-
ing, Dallas 1, Texas.

1928-A—J. Davis Reed, Jr., 513 Bank of Commerce Building,
Norfolk, Virginia.

1928-L—Norman R. Crozier, Jr., Southwestern Life Building,
Dallas 1, Texas.

1929-A—Joe L. Lockett, 2201 Gulf Building, Houston 2, Tex.

1929-L—Charles L. Claunch, 1023 Chattanooga Bank Build-
ing, Chattanooga 2, Tennessee.

1930-A—Kenneth L. Keil, 909 Myers Bldg., Springfield, III.

1930-L—E. I. Bostwick, 801 Mutual Building, Richmond, Va.

1931-A—Paul Allen Hornor, Box 386, Clarksburg, W. Va.

1931-L—John Charles Smith, 50 South Lasalle, Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

1932-A—R. L. McKinney, Jr., 307 W. Woodward Street,
Denison, Texas.

1932-L—Ross L. Malone, Jr., J. P. White Bldg., Roswell,
New Mexico.

1933-A—-Luther F. Violett, 290 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Bank of Shelbyville Building,
Shelbyville, Kentucky.

1934-A—Richard W. Grafton, One West State Street, Tren-
ton 8, New Jersey.

1934-L—Albert M. Fowler, Hotel Belleville, Belleville, Ill.

1935-A—William Schuhle, Adrian College, Adrian, Michigan

1935-L—E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., 100 Market Street, Cam-
den, New Jersey

1936-A—Kenneth P. Lane, Box 1538, Richmond, Virginia.

1936-L—Hugh D. McNew, 1336 McCutcheon, Richmond
Heights 17, Missouri.

1937-A—Fielden Woodward, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville, Kentucky.

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of J. Goldsmith & Sons Co.,
Memphis 1, Tennessee

1938-A—Samuel P. McChesney, Jr., care of American Week-
ly, 1556 Hanna Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

1938-L—Frank L. Price, 410 Lincoln Ave., Takoma 12, Md.

1939-A—Charles H. Semple, 1481 South Third Street, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

1939-L—-J. Vaughan Beale, 7236 Newport Ave. Norfolk, Va.

1940-A—Sydney Lewis, Attorney-at-Law, Broad-Grace Ar-
cade, Richmond, Virginia.

1940-L—Harry Roberts Stephenson, Jr., 1411 Woodside
Building, Greenville, South Carolina.

1941-A—Henry Thomas Martin, 422 King George Avenue,
S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

1941-L—Pete Barrow, Richwood, West Virginia.

1942-A—Robert F. Campbell, Jr., 6 Pearson Drive, Asheville;
North Carolina.

1942-L—Robert C. Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville 2, Kentucky

1943 —Albert D. Darby, Jr., 4415 Main Avenue, Norwood
12, Ohio.
1944 —Clarence F. Johnson, Jr., 814 East Morris Street,

Dalton, Georgia.

 

 

Appalachian—A. Carter Crymble, ‘18, Ten-
nessee Eastman Corp., Kingsport, Tenn.

Arkansas—John M. Raines, ‘16, 1600 Arch
Street, Little Rock, Arkansas

Atlanta—Willis M. Everett, '20, 402 Connally
Building
ee Galloway, '43, 1312 John
treet
Birmingham—John F. Hendon, '24, 1631 North
Third Avenue

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee Kenna, ‘40,
501 Swarthmore

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ‘27, Chat-
tanooga Bank Building

Chicago—J, W. Cook, Jr., °19, 2220 Pioneer
Road, Evanston, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, '40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Hugh G. Ashcraft, Jr., ‘41, Park
Road

Cleveland—Thomas M. Harman, ‘'25, 1759
Union Commerce Building

Danville, Virginia—Dr. C. H. Wilson, '24, P.O.
Box 61

Detroit—George Leyburn Hughes, ‘10, 1366
National Bank of Commerce Building.

Florida West Coast—B. L. Malone, '24 Flor-
ida National Bank Bldg., St. Petersburg

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, '25, 1117-1118 Se-
curity Building, Miami, Florida

Houston—T. D. Anderson, '34, Union National
Bank Building

Jacksonville—Rhydon Latham, ‘28, Florida
National Bank Building

Louisville—M. Peel Rivers, ‘'33, Suite 1500
Starks Building

Lynchburg—Edward S. Graves, '30, 409 Krise
Building

Memphis—L. V. (Jimmie) Butler, '37, 4158
Tuckahoe Lane

New York—Gossett W. McRae, '28, 19 Rector
Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ‘21, 715
American Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
'13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northern Louisiana—Robert M. Jeter, Jr., °41,
4534 Fairfield, Shreveport, Louisiana

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ‘31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas, Texas

Parkersburg—Claude P. Light, ‘06, Court
House

Philadelphia—Frank D. Crew, °37, 1539 Race
Street

Piedmont—Dr. O. Norris Smith, '29, 363 North
Elm Street, Greensboro, North Carolina

Pittsburgh—C. P. Robinson, ‘10, 806 Park
Building

Richmond—Dr. A. M. Wash, '15, Medical Arts
Building

Roanoke—Clifton Woodrum, Jr., '33, Shenan-
doah Life Building

Rockingham County—W. H. Keister, '94, Har-
risonburg, Virginia

San Antonio—Carl C. Wurzbach, ‘15, 505
Brady Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, '21, 304 Pierce
Building

Tri-State—A. W. Mann, ‘15, Ashland, Ken-
tucky; Roy Campbell, ‘19, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ‘38,
207 Washington Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Elwood Seal, '16, 726 Jack-
son Place, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. Fred Cook, ‘33

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

 

Vol. XXIII MAY, 1948 No. 3

 

FR aeons <n aghe Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President 6: oo Leon W. Harris, 1915
Vice-President....................+. L. W. Witson, 1910
Severe. 5o Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TTCQSUPEL......ccccccccccsceces WarrEN E. Titson, 1926

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Tuos. S. Kirkpatrick, 1913
Leon W. Harris, 1915
Amos A. Boten, 1937

LAURENCE W. Witson, 1910

Henry P. Jounston, 1929

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON, 1911

Warr™EN E. Titson, 1926

THE FRONT COVER

BANDWAGON—Typical among color elements in the 1948
W. and L. mock convention parade is the mad scramble for
the “Broadway and 42nd Street” bus by New York’s 97 Re-
publican “delegates.” Nobody was killed in the rush, but lots
of natives and out-of-town spectators attracted to Lexington
by the huge parade almost died laughing at the collegiate
shenanigans offered as a preview of the June
GOP show in Philadelphia

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notes From the President's Office

Many Places, Many Ways: The distribution, as well as the
distinction, of our alumni always impresses me. I checked
in the current Who’s Who the list of people whose names be-
gin with the letter B. I found thirteen men who had attended
Washington and Lee. The group includes two bankers, a
clergyman, a congressman, a corporation executive, a doctor,
three educators, a Federal judge, two government officials,
and a practising lawyer. These men live in twelve different
states.

8 am Ss

A Salute: Speaking of distinction, we are proud of our
alumni who are earning praise for excellence of creative writ-
ing. At the moment I recall, among recent items, Tom Su-
grue’s (’29) engrossing spiritual autobiography, “Stranger in
the Earth,” Virgil Jones’ (30) fascinating study, “The Hat-
field’s and the McCoys,” and W. B. Hasseltine’s (’22) sug-
gestive little volume, “The Rise and Fall of Third Parties.”
George Goodwin (’39) won this year’s Pulitzer award for
reporting.

eo es 2

Good Work: Even non-legal alumni, and undoubtedly our
lawyers, will appreciate high quality in the current issue of
the Law Review. It includes, among other things, articles by
seventeen students. Our Dr. Smedley, by the way, has been
elected president of the Southern association of editors of
these reviews.

x ok k ok Ok

Alarming Trends: My newspaper for May 10 carries two
separate, significant items. Johns Hopkins University, the
president of its board announces, expects to close its fiscal
year with a deficit of $900,000. Harvard University will raise
its tuition in certain divisions by $125 a year; the total in the
various divisions is now $525 a year.

x* * * * *

Stimulating Programs: The session has been marked with
a number of admirable public functions. Take the month of
April, for example. We celebrated Washington-Cincinnati
day by conferring degrees upon eight scholars of national
prominence; the address was delivered by one of them, Dr.
Randall, professor of history at the University of Illinois.
Religious Emphasis Week brought seven speakers to the
campus and was received, according to The Ring-tum Phi,
with “unprecedented favor.” The Mock Convention, which
began with an address by our alumnus, Congressman Brown,
was acclaimed as the best in our history. The Southern In-
terscholastic Press Association, which brought nearly 500
youngsters to the campus, including addresses by half a dozen
men of prestige and power in that field.

x* * * *k*

Favorable Publicity: The alumni have doubtless seen, I
am sure, much publicity about their Alma Mater. Leading
newspapers over the country carried a feature article on
April 11, relating the story of Washington’s gift. News-Week
for April 26 carried a page, and the du Pont “Cavalcade of
America” radio program for the same day dramatized the
coming of Lee to Lexington. News reels, press services, and
many individual correspondents covered the Mock Conven-
tion. Several great newspapers will cover the Bicentennial
story in their own way; a writer for one of these has been
on the campus several days during the present week.

The Best Credential: Publicity of this nature is always de-
sirable, of course, but the final testimony for an institution of
learning is in the character and the contribution of alumni.
A successful business man, not an alumnus himself, has given
a scholarship in memory of one of the fine boys we lost in
war. The boy is the son of an alumnus. The donor told me,
simply, that he admired a school that turns out such men as
that father and that son.

ae. a a oe

Now Is the Year for Help: I venture to remind the alumni
that it is this year, 1948, which covers the participating offer
of the General Education Board to give one dollar for every
four received from other sources as gifts to our permanent
funds. We must certainly get every penny—the limit for a
total of a million and half dollars—of this most generous pro-
posal.

ks:  -e8

The Grand Idea: One of our most intelligent and most de-
voted young alumni was approached by a friend who wanted
a gift to his own college. The alumnus responded by agreeing
to make a donation if the friend in turn would give some-
thing to Washington and Lee. Then the alumnus wrote us and
remarked that if every man thus approached for another
cause would “bargain” for a contribution to Washington and
Lee, we would soon get all of our money. I commend the
thought.

oe a

Alumni in the Bicentennial: The program for the Bicen-
tennial Year is shaping up well. The opening address will be
given by Chief Justice Vinson, father of a present student. In
early November we shall have six addresses by alumni who
have achieved high place in different fields of endeavor. Next
Spring the John Randolph Tucker series of law lectures will
be inaugurated by our beloved John W. Davis.

se RS

Federal Aid for Higher Education: With a prophecy of
startling increase in college enrollments by 1960 (twice the
present enrollment, three times the 1940 enrollment), the
President’s commission on Higher Education recommends
that the Federal Government appropriate nearly three bil-
lion dollars during intervening years but only to institutions
under public control (underscoring by the Commission). This
differentiation is based on the right of government “to review
and control educational policies in any institution—for which
public monies are expended.” It is true that the Commission
here refers to state and local governments but the logic of the
principle thus phrased could easily prove inviting to the Fed-
eral Government which appropriates the money thus ex-
pended. Pondering this proposal, our alumni will surely re-
mind themselves that the free and uncoerced institution for
training our leadership was never more essential and must
be strengthened for its task.

ee

R.S.V.P. Jotting down these random notes, I have a
happy sense of writing personally to all alumni who may read
this magazine. Most sincerely I invite “replies,” about these

topics or about any theme relating to the welfare of our
University.

President

4.)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Mock Convention Selects Vandenberg

By Bill Bien

 

Congressman Clarence Brown, ’16
Delivers Keynote Address

America’s most successful and elaborate mock political
convention last month took nine ballots to name Senator Ar-
thur H. Vandenberg, of Michigan, as its Republican standard-
bearer in the November elections.

Politicos and political observers from coast to coast fol-
lowed the national political spotlight to Lexington April
20-21 as 1094 Washington and Lee University “Republican
national convention delegates” jammed their campus “Con-
vention Hall” (Doremus' Gymnasium) for the university’s
ninth mock political convention since 1908.

Traditionally representing the challenging party, W. and
L,. conventions have seen their predictions verified five out of
eight times. They had missed only once until 1936, when on
the last ballot they deserted Alf Landon in favor of Vanden-
berg. Deciding to string along a second time with the senior
Michigan senator, the “delegates” are waiting now with
crossed fingers—hoping the nomination will not portend
disaster for their candidate.

Newsreel and magazine cameramen shot thousands of feet
of film during the sessions showing students toiling under the
glare of powerful floodlights and flashbulbs to break an eighth-
ballot Taft-Dewey deadlock in favor of darkhorse Vanden-
berg.

Meanwhile a crowded press gallery beat out thousands
of words of news copy on batteries of typewriters, recording
the serious aspects and playful sidelights of the meeting.
Major newspapers in all parts of the country carried day-to-
day reports of the balloting, in addition to wirephoto pictures
sent directly from the campus by Associated Press.

Soasting an achievement record equalled by few, if any,
political forecasters, the latest W. and L. convention drew a
total unprecedented amount of national interest. Al Mingalone
and George Bockhurst filmed the two-day event for Para-
mount and MGM Newsreels, while cameraman Tom McAvoy

and staff-writer Don Morris did detailed coverage for Time-
Life. Associated Press sent Frank Fuller, chief of the Rich-
mond Bureau, plus a wirephoto crew, and such prominent
by-line political writers as Mary Spargo, the Washington
Post, and Stanley Baitz, the Washington Star, kept telegraph
wires humming out of Lexington with their stories.

United Press sent William Shires from Atlanta to the
conclave, and many newspaper photographers busily cap-
tured students in action during the completely authentic
Republican pollings.

With traditional devotion to accuracy, a student “steer-
ing committee” headed by Beverly Fitzpatrick, of Roanoke,
Virginia, and Fred M. Vinson, Jr., of Washington, D.C., began
working months before the convention opened. GOP “chair-
men” for all 48 states and territories started gathering in-
formation from their real-life counterparts. They contacted
their State Republican Central Committeemen during the
University’s spring vacation to assure accurate voting, and
organized intensive pre-convention campaigns designed to
boost their various candidates.

Toughest job on the committee agenda was finding an
elephant—preferably with GOP experience—for the con-
vention parade. After a frantic nationwide search, Lea Booth,
Washington and Lee director of public relations, organized
a safari and became the outstanding big-game hunter in the
Old Dominion when he tracked down a pachyderm belonging
to Dales Circus, then playing in Corbin, Kentucky. Circus
owners agreed to let W. and L. use the animal and E. W.
King, president of the Mason-Dixon Trucking Lines, do-
nated a van to transport the elephant to Lexington in time
for the pre-convention rally.

Thousands of people from the lower Shenandoah Valley
packed Lexington’s streets to witness the colorful parade.
Trafic over U.S. Route 11 was detoured from the main
street and uncounted hundreds of tourists parked to watch

 

. cE

\ \
eS - - ‘>
2 : = ‘ :
P *
ee, ip .
P. .

uy :

woh B

~ wal 2 oe a -

 
    

  
 

toned
_

| <h. -

i

  

 

ar |
a

at oh
ined

  

a

West Virginia’s Delegation
in the Parade

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

a

& g /
wre sg x
a *

what appeared to be a Roman holiday. The onlookers didn’t
seem to mind being splattered with oranges from the Florida
delegation, flour and bread slices from the Minnesotans, and
Baldwin apples tossed by Connecticut delegates pledged to
Governor Baldwin.

A major attraction of the parade was a realistic coal min-
ers’ sit-down strike organized by “John L. Lewis” and staged
in front of the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

The crowd applauded appreciatively when the California
group passed, with attractive women pushing baby-carriages

 

eee

Fastest Growing
Jehind them came the Missouri dele-

under a banner proclaiming California as
State in the Union.”
gation leading an imitation Democratic donkey which faltered
at frequent intervals while attempting to dance the “Mis-
souri Waltz.” Cameramen had a field day shooting such
antics as the riot staged by the New York delegates, who

stopped the parade to climb on the “Dewey
a Broadway and 42nd Street bus.

sandwagon,”

Representative Clarence J. Brown, ’16, (R-Ohio) officially
opened the two-day session in Doremus Gymnasium with a

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

keynote address, pointing out that “This convention will
name the next President of the United States because the
people are tired of Hybrid Henrys and High-tax Harrys.”

First name placed on the nomination roster was Thomas
E. Dewey, after a fiery nominating speech by Alex Andrews,
New York “Delegate.” Before the first day’s meetings were
adjourned he was joined by Taft, Stassen, Green, Vandenberg,
Ed Martin, Joe Martin, Driscoll, MacArthur, Reese, and
Baldwin.

To the accompaniment of exploding flashbulbs, steady
whirring of movie cameras, and the unbroken clacking of
typewriters, students cast ballot after ballot during the sec-
ond day. Dewey and Taft rapidly outdistanced the field and
moved into an anticipated deadlock.

Then, during the eighth polling, Pennsylvania’s “Chair-
man,” Dick Turrell, injected a new tenseness into the pro-
ceedings when he announced a shift of his 73 votes to Van-
denberg. Delegates and spectators alike realized the time for
a Vandenberg bid was at hand. Nothing else happened im-
mediately, however, and the air of tenseness increased as
Parliamentarian Claude Taylor took the votes from: states
alphabetically behind Pennsylvania. Tabulation of the eighth
ballot showed Dewey still holding a comfortable lead of
more than a hundred votes, Taft rapidly slipping into ob-
livion, and Vandenberg with approximately 300 votes—more
than 200 shy of nomination.

As Secretary Jack Coulter called for the ninth round of
balloting, several states passed until Kentucky yielded to
Texas, and “State Chairman” Ben Haden, acting on tele-
phoned instructions from GOP headquarters, dramatically
switched his delegates’ vote from Dewey to Vandenberg.

A mad scramble to clamber on the bandwagon threw the
convention into a turmoil and when calm was restored, Van-
denberg emerged with almost all of the delegates’ 1094 votes
to become Washington and Lee’s choice for 1948 Republican
Presidential nominee.

Only one additional ballot was needed to name Senator
Leverett Saltonstall, of Massachusetts, as the W. and L,. vice-
presidential candidate.

Visitors observing the event enthusiastically endorsed
Washington and Lee’s claim of complete authenticity. Ex-
perienced political writers said that except for the youth of
the “delegates,” the convention was an exact replica of real
national party gatherings, but “perhaps not as rough-house.”

Just as in the actual Republican national conventions, W.
and L,. delegates held hurried secret caucuses during the meet-
ings, and there was even some open vote trading on the floor.
Lexington phone circuits were strained under long-distance
calls at all hours by “state chairmen” obtaining instructions
from real-life GOP committeemen as far away as California.

 

GRAHAM MORISON vs. JOHN L. LEWIS

Hugh Graham Morison, B.A., ’30; LL.B., ’32, now Assis-
tant Attorney General of the U.S., in charge of the Justice
Department’s claims division, prepared the case in which
Judge T. Alan Goldsborough slapped a fine of $1,400,000 on
John L. Lewis’ union and a $20,000 fine on Lewis himself
for criminal contempt of court.

The claims division handles all civil litigation of the de-
partment except antitrust and tax matters. The diversified
field of its 10 sections won it the name of the “Little Depart-
ment of Justice.”

Morison has served with the department as attorney, spe-
cial assistant and executive assistant before being recom-
mended by Attorney General Tom Clark for his present po-
sition.

 

Discussing the script of “Lee of Virginia,” the du Pont Caval-
cade of America broadcast on NBC April 26, are (left to
right): Milton B. Rogers, 17, Virginia Radcliffe, author of the
radio drama, Leo G. Carroll, noted stage and screen actor
who played the part of General Lee, and John Drye, ’20. The
drama was produced at the Longacre Theatre in New York
and broadcast over 136 NBC stations all over America as a
tribute to General Lee’s achievements as President of Wash-
ington College. Full information on this broadcast was sent
by the Alumni Office a week in advance to all alumni.

 

VETERAN ALUMNUS REVISITS HIS ALMA MATER

Colonel Albert M. Deal, LL.B. ’96, celebrated his eighti-
eth birthday on January 2, 1948. Among the many presents
bestowed upon him, perhaps the most unique and satisfying,
was a surprise trip to Lexington, Virginia, to visit the scene
of his college days at Washington and Lee, his first return
to the campus since graduation. This trip was the gift of his
son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. William Deal of La-
Grange, Georgia. Possessed of a vibrant, forward-looking
spirit not often associated with one of his years, he said that
his purpose in returning to Lexington was not only to seek
out the landmarks of his student days and experience the
warm glow that wells from reminiscing on dear but long-
forgotten friends and faculty members, but also to see for
himself, and to rejoice over, the many evidences of progress
and the brilliant future of service that lies ahead of one of
the South’s oldest and most distinguished colleges. Mr. Deal
is a member of the law firm of Deal and Anderson of States-
boro, Georgia. He spent the day in visiting the administra-
tive offices of the University and his class-mate and room-
mate, Benjamin F. Harlow, owner and editor of the Lexing-
ton Gazette. While a student here he was affectionately
known as “Square Deal,” which has been an apt appraisal of
his career in after life.

 

ALUMNUS RECEIVES PULITZER PRIZE

Listed among the recent recipients of Pulitzer prizes for
1947 is the name of George E. Goodwin, B.A., ’39, staff writer
of the Atlanta, Georgia, Journal, who won the prize for a
distinguished example of local reporting in 1947. It was for
his expose of vote fraud in Telfair County, Georgia, in the
general election of November 5, 1946.

[7]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the Campus

PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATES

Fourteen students from the class graduating June, 1948
and four alumni were initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at the
annual meeting of Gamma Chapter, Washington and Lee
University, on March 25. The initiation, which took place at
the Student Union, was followed by a banquet at the Dutch
Inn.

Student initiates were: James M. Ballengee, Sidney M. B.
Coulling, John W. Funkhouser, Frederick B. Gillett, S. Laird
Harman, Frederick S. Holley, Frederick B. M. Hollyday,
Wiley McGehee, Jr., Warren U. Ober, Walter B. Potter,
William F. Reynolds, III, Stanley E. Sacks, Fred M. Vin-
son, Jr.. Edmund D. Wells, Jr., John P. Stewart. Alumni
initiates were Bernard R. Kennedy, LL.B., ’23, Director of
the Federal Register, National Archives, Washington, D. C.;
Arthur W. Phelps, A.B., ’32, Dean of the Department of Law.
College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia; Dr.
Herbert Pollack, A.B., ’25, distinguished for his teaching at
Harvard, Cornell and Columbia and for outstanding medical
research and practice; and Philip D. Sprouse, A.B., ’25, dis-
tinguished authority on Far Eastern Affairs, State Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C.

x* * * * *

RELIGIOUS EMPHASIS WEEK

With Dr. W. Sherman Skinner, pastor of the East Liberty
Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, as keynote speaker, the
University’s annual non-sectarian religious emphasis con-
ference was held April 6-8 with a panel of seven lecturers and
forum leaders conducting the three-day series. Purpose of
the conference was to discuss the relationship between re-
ligious and various occupational and professional fields for
which Washington and Lee students are preparing. In ad-
dition to Dr. Skinner, conference leaders included Dr. Louis
Wolsey, rabbi emeritus of Congregation Rodeph Shalom,
Philadelphia; Judge James H. Ricks, of the Juvenile and Do-
mestic Relations Court of Richmond; Dr. Edward Myers,
dean of Roanoke College; Dr. Henry Margenau, professor
of natural philosophy and physics at Yale University; The
Rev. Francis McPeek, of Chicago, secretary of the Indus-
trial Relations Council for Social Action of the Congrega-
tional Christian Churches; and Dr. Leland Foster Wood,
secretary of the Commission on Marriage and the Home of
the Federal Council of Churches.

* * * *

STUDENT MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP

In connection with the Bicentennial Program students of
Washington and Lee have volunteered to raise a fund of
$10,000 taking care of one of the Memorial Scholarships in
honor of students who lost their lives in World War II.

At a voluntary University Assembly on March 7, Bill
Chipley, chairman of the drive for funds, explained the me-
morial scholarship to the student body and outlined future
plans.

A feature of the Assembly was a beauty contest for selec-
tion of the Queen of the Southern Conference Wrestling
Tournament, when representatives from surrounding girls’
schools were introduced to the student body, who served as
sponsors of the teams entered in the tournament. Miss Molly
Ferrell, student at Hollins, was chosen and sponsored the

Washington and Lee team and was Queen of the tournament.

Washington and Lee’s “Week-end in Lynchburg,” April
10—a social jaunt designed to raise money for the scholar-
ship fund, featured a Washington and Lee-University of Vir-
ginia baseball game in the afternoon and a cabaret-style dance
in the evening, was well attended by students, their dates
and Lynchburg alumni. It was a definite success from both a
social and financial standpoint.

* * * * *

PLACEMENT SERVICE

During the Spring months the University Counseling and
Placement Service has offered prospective June graduates the
opportunity of interviews with representatives of various
nation-wide firms, concerning future employment. Represen-
tatives of the Vick Chemical Company, Aetna Casualty and
Surety Company, Burlington Mills Corporation, of Greens-
boro, North Carolina, and Proctor and Gamble Distributing
Company, and others, have been on the campus to interview
prospective candidates for employment.

aca cae shee

WASHINGTON-CINCINNATI SOCIETY
CONVOCATION

At a University Assembly, April 12, marking the 150th an-
niversary of George Washington's gift to the then Liberty
Hall Academy, and celebrating the Washington-Cincinnati
Society Convocation here, eight honorary degrees were pre-
sented by the University. The Assembly speaker was Dr.
James Garfield Randall, distinguished professor of history
at the University of Illinois. He received a Doctor of Let-
ters degree.

Honorary degrees were also conferred upon the following:

Donald G. Davidson, professor of English literature at
Vanderbilt University. Dr. Davidson is a poet, literary critic
and author of the biographical “Lee in the Mountains.”

Urban Tigner Holmes, Jr., professor of Romance Philol-
ogy at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Holmes is the
writer of many articles and treatises in French.

Charles Sackett Sydnor, Duke University’s historian, and
author of extensive writings in the fields of slavery and the
Old South.

Charles Holt Taylor, B.A., ’19, professor of medieval his-
tory at Harvard. Dr. Holt authored studies in early French
taxation and other medieval problems.

David Elton Trueblood, for many years professor of re-
ligious philosophy at Stanford University and now dean of
Earlham College in Indiana.

A Doctorate of Humane Letters was conferred upon Wil-
liam Clyde De Vane, dean of Yale College, professor of Eng-
lish at Yale University and authority in the fields of Brown-
ing, Tennyson and the Brontes.

To David Herchell Wice, B.A., ’27, M.A., ’28, rabbi of the
Rodelph Shalom synagogue in Philadelphia, went an honorary
Doctor of Divinity degree.

x * *k *

WASHINGTON AND LEE CAMERA CLUB

The first annual Southern Collegiate Salon was hung in
McCormick Library on April 16 with photographic entries
from all over the South competing for three cash prizes con-

(Continued on page 14)

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Spring Sports Resume

By Don Murray

Twenty-nine victories out of thirty-eight major spring
athletic contests. That’s the record to date compiled by Wash-
ington and Lee’s Generals in Baseball, Tennis, Golf, Crew,
and Lacrosse. Bicentennial enthusiasm is reflected in this
imposing record; the University’s 200th year may be preluded
by one of the best athletic records Washington and Lee has
ever known.

Let’s look at tennis first. The Blue netmen, with two
matches remaining on the schedule, have won eight and lost
two. Student-coach Shep Zinovoy’s charges began their sea-
son with a six-match winning streak, the first loss of the
campaign being absorbed at the hands of the powerful Coun-
try Club of Virginia team. In that six-match streak, victories
were garnered over the University of Maine, Hampden-Syd-
ney, Richmond, Georgetown, and George Washington Uni-
versity. Hampden-Sydney was beaten twice before the Coun-
try Club of Virginia loss. In their next two outings the net-
men dropped Franklin and Marshall College and Western
Maryland by decisive counts. A short time before this maga-
zine went to press the General racketeers sustained their
second loss of the season; this time to the University of Vir-
ginia.

Outstanding for the Blue during the 1948 tennis campaign
Lave been Don Moxham, a veteran of two previous seasons on
the courts, Bill Bernard, a newcomer from Washington, D. C.,
Jim Farrar, another former letterman from Old Greenwich,
Connecticut, Bob Knudsen, a freshman with a good deal of
promise, and Bob Swinnerton.

The next and last two matches will see the Blue pitted
against the University of Virginia for the second time and
Richmond, another repeat performance.

Cy Twombly’s golfers are at present participating in the
Southern Conference tourney at the Pinehurst course, near
Pinehurst, North Carolina. A glance at the record shows
that the linksmen, led by Gordon “Swish” Sibley, a three-time
letterman, have compiled a near-perfect record. The General
golfers have won eight out of nine starts, the sole loss being
a one point affair to VPI. A second match with the Gobblers
is on tap one week hence, and revenge is the order of the day.
As they went into the Conference tournament the Blue golf-
ers were at the peak of a six-match winning streak. A prelu-
dial match with Davidson was set one day before the begin-
uing of the tournament, but as we go to press no word has
been received of the outcome.

Links victories have been secured over Franklin and Mar-
shall, George Washington, Virginia, Richmond, Maryland,
and Hampden-Sydney, with dual victories over Maryland
and George Washington to date. Remaining matches of the
season send the golfers out against VPI, as mentioned above,
and Virginia. Wins in both contests would give the Generals
a season record of twelve wins and a single loss.

Besides Sibley, Blue golf wins have been made certain by
lettermen John McKelway, Washington, D.C., and Jack
McCormack, of Pensacola, Florida, and by newcomers Wes
Brown, Dick Lewis, and Cliff Thomas. In their last two
matches Sibley and Brown shot scores of 69 and 68 respec-
tively at the Prince George course in Washington, D. C.

Southern Conference baseball experts are following the
in-and-out-of-first place antics of North Carolina and her

 

Capt. Vinson and Coach Smith Confer

 

closest rival, Washington and Lee. Currently, Cap’n Dick
Smith’s diamond athletes are in second place in Conference
standings, one game behind the loop-leading Tarheels.

The Generals’ position so close to the top of the ladder has
confounded the pre-season dope, for Washington and Lee
was conceded little by those who follow Conference baseball
closely. But the Blue has made it a tight race from the be-
ginning, and with five league games remaining the Generals
have a good chance to take first place away from Carolina.
In the Conference, Washington and Lee has a nine won and
four lost record. The leading Tarheels, at this writing have
a record of eight and four. A loss suffered by Carolina in her
next game would elevate the Generals into first place.

The Generals’ position in the State race is similar to that
of the Southern Conference. As we go to press, the University
of Virginia leads the Blue by a single game. This situation
might have been changed had not rain stopped a game in
Charlottesville on May 4, with the score tied at 2-all.

The prowess of the General baseballers was first brought
to public attention in the first weeks of the collegiate season
when they began the campaign with a six game winning streak,
five of these contests being played in the Southern Confer-
ence. After an opening day game with Ohio Wesleyan on

Bard

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Wilson Field, in which the westerners were downed, 9-4, the
Blue made a whirlwind sweep of the Carolina section of the
Conference. Five consecutive wins were recorded over David-
son and Furman. Returning home, the Generals sustained
their first setback of the year in a loosely-played game with
West Virginia, but recovered immediately to take another
Southern Conference opponent into camp, beating VPI in
Blacksburg. Getting another bad game out of their systems
at the appropriate time, the Generals dropped their next con-
test, this time to Georgetown’s Hoyas, but reversed form
again a few days later to win over George Washington in
another Conference game.

Rain has interfered with the schedule of late, five cancel-
led games having resulted from inclement weather. Rain, too,
has caused the team to lose its freshman sparkplug, Charlie
“Doot” Agnor. Agnor, a crackerjack shortstop and the team’s
most potent hitter, was struck on the head by a pitched ball
in the first inning of a game two weeks ago with Virginia.
The wet ball slipped from the control of pitcher Buddy
Charles and struck Doot on the left temple. Preliminary ex-
amination showed a severe concussion, and it is not likely
that. Agnor will return to action before the season’s end.

Without Agnor, the Generals will still have a sound base-
ball club on the field for the remainder of the year. Captain
Fred Vinson will alternate between second and short, with
Bob Early seeing occasional service at either post. Dick
Working’s efficient work at third base presents no problem
to Cap’n Dick-at that position. Brian “The Brain” Bell, one
of the best first basemen ever seen on Wilson Field has no
peer as a fielder, and his big bat has caused opposing pitchers
to treat him with much respect. He’s a switch hitter, too, and
bats equally well from the left or right hand side of the plate.
Ed Tenney, a letterman from last year, will see service at sec-
ond base throughout the remainder of the season.

Behind the plate John. Bell is calling the signals for the
third straight year. Few catchers in collegiate baseball are

¢.

 

Crewmen Unload New Shell Given Them by the Alumni Association

endowed with the whip-like arm possessed by Bell. It is a
common sight to see ambitious base-runners caught steal-
ing by Bell’s throws.

The outfield has Willis Woods and John Dillon, both
lettermen, in center and left fields, respectively. Right fielders
are aplenty, but John Ligon and Nelson Newcomb, both of
whom pitch regularly, have spent much time in right field be-
cause of hitting ability.

In addition to Newcomb and Ligon, the pitching staff is
comprised of veterans entirely. Mike Boyda, who pitched in
1946, has returned to the hill this season. Other moundmen
are Lacey Putney, Larry Wheater, Buck Leslie, and Buddy
Laupheimer. Leslie, like Agnor, is a Lexington product.

Most pleasant surprise so far this spring has been crew.
With no coach assigned from the faculty, the crewmen, under
direction of Francis “Wink” Glasgow, have produced a win-
ning crew. Victories were recorded over American Inter-
national College of Ohio, and Rollins College. Both races
were run on the James River course. The sole loss was ad-
ininistered recently by Marietta College at the Ohio school’s
course by a five second margin. This year again the annual
Finals boat races will attract a large crowd.

Two minor sports are at present winding up their seasons.
The Lacrosse team has a three won and three lost record as
we go to press, having scored wins over Yale, Virginia and
Loyola of Baltimore. Two more contests have yet to be
played, and it is possible that the Lacrossemen may achieve
a five and three record for the season. This, too is a coachless
team, the athletes directing their own practice and strategy.

Track, while not as successful this season as other teams,
has had to fight against heavy odds, particularly the weather.
Cold, rain, and a slow track have kept the trackmen from

reaching peak physical shape. The only win of the season was
obtained at the expense of Randolph-Macon College. Other
meets were dropped to Richmond, VPI, Davidson and West
Virginia.

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Education of a New Englander

Reviewed by OLLINGER CRENSHAW

A literary event of interest to alumni and friends of Wash-
ington and Lee University is the appearance this spring of
Thomas Sugrue’s autobiographical study Stranger in the
Earth. Tom Sugrue ’29, already well known to the reading
public as a discriminating critic and as the author of such
popular works as Starling of the White House and We Called
It Music, has here presented
the story of his own spiritual
and intellectual development.
It is the story of a highly in-
telligent, sensitive, deeply spir-
itual and religious Irish Catho-
lic lad, who found adjustment
to the hard, sometimes ugly
and cruel workaday world a
painful process.

The book opens with its
protagonist entering a fever
tent there to begin treatments
which it was hoped would re-
store him to health. At the
outset of a long day’s heat
treatment the patient opens
what proves to be a protracted
colloquy with “the Professor”
(a clock) which embraces
metaphysical and religious dis-
cussions, interspersed with
digressions and comments on
a wide variety of topics. These,
dialogues with the sardonic
“Professor” cover an aston-
ishing range of theology, phi-
losophy, history, science, and
psychology, supplemented by
critical observations on the
contemporary American scene.
From all this talk autobiogra-
phical outlines emerge which
partially but by no means ful- %
ly set forth the life story of one
who “was almost entirely a
compound of minorities, of
contradictions: son of a Connecticut Irish Catholic Wilsonian
Democrat, educated in Virginia at a university founded by the
Presbytery, trained on a Republican newspaper, hired to hymn
the nation’s great by a popular magazine, enamored of the
mystical way.” It should be emphasized that the significance
and importance of this work are to be found in its philoso-
phical and religious aspects, and in the author’s concern for
the inadequacies of modern Christianity. His own Church is
subjected to critical examination; he seeks a synthesis of faith
and modern science; and like Erasmus he skirts the rim of
heresy but seems not to go beyond.

Inasmuch as competent reviewers have elsewhere dis-

 

Stranger in the Earth. By Thomas Sugrue. 371 pp. New York:
Henry Holt and Company, 1948. $4.00.

 

Tom Sugrue, ’29, Author of New Book

cussed the more profound phases of the book, it seems ap-
propriate here to dwell upon that segment which describes
Tom Sugrue’s student years (1926-1930) at Washington and
Lee. There will be universal appeal to college alumni in his
choice of a college and the reasons therefor (a good small
college, reasonably accessible to home but in a different sec-
tion, non-sectarian, possessing
a department of journalism);
and in his graphic account of
leave-taking a Naugatuck, the
journey to Lexington, and his
initial impressions of Wash-
ington and Lee. This “damn
Yankee” freshman, who had
come quite unheralded, imme-
diately established friendly re-
lationships with  fellow-stu
dents, and in registration line
was warmly welcomed by the
Dean of the University, Dr.
Henry Donald Campbell.
Throughout his career at col-
lege the wise and kindly Dean
Campbell manifested a sympa-
thetic interest in him. Alumni
of the period will experience
nostalgia when they read the
varacious description of Presi-
dent Henry Louis Smith’s
opening address to the fresh-
man Class: one may see again
the frock-coated President,
his white hair gleaming as he
strode across the platform
hammering home his points.
One freshman remembered
years afterward his exhilara-
tion at Dr. Smith’s eloquent
efforts to launch the young
men on their quest for “The
Northwest Passage of Truth!”

There is also an apprecia-
tion of the work of the mem-
bers of the faculty at Washington and Lee, of whom without
question the most influential in the development of Tom
Sugrue was Fitzgerald Flournoy of the Department of Eng-
lish. This “large joyous-looking” man whose voice in a “stage-
whisper would fill an ampitheatre” instructed his pupil in
every subject inside as well as outside the classroom. Some
idea of Dr. Flournoy in action may be gained from the fol-
lowing:

“His lectures from the beginning were a wonder and a
celight to us. Teetering in a cane-bottomed chair, pacing
back and forth on the narrow speakers’ platform—sometimes
in his preoccupation he overstepped its length, but he never
allowed the mishap to interrupt so much as a syllable of his
remarks—he poured out not only his love for the English
language and his knowledge and understanding of the great

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

writers who employed it, but his enchantment with the en-
tire fabric of existence and his appreciation of its duality of
loveliness and laughter, good and evil, reason and ridiculous-
ness.”

It is evident that such infectious enthusiasm reached even
the most unresponsive, while what he did “for those of us who
had a natural interest in reading and writing is incalculable.”
Outside the classroom a camaraderie existed between teacher
and student which is illustrated in several anecdotes, the
most entertaining of which is the hilarious North river-sun-
bathing episodes.

Nowadays a Dean occasionally expresses the desire to
stimulate undergraduate intellectual zest and excitement.
While one would not claim that all undergraduates at Wash-
ington and Lee during the late twenties conversed as did
those in the group which included Sugrue and his friends
Elias and Cayce, it is certain that few college men anywhere
were more intellectually alive than those comprising that
circle of literati. Especially vivid are the portraits of Hugh
Lynn Cayce, who was interested in clairvoyance and psychic
phenomena, and of the
brilliant Jew, the warm-
hearted Elias, whose
tragic death is chron-
icled in these pages.

One may find here,
too, a sympathetic por-
trayal of life in the town
of Lexington, vignettes
of street scenes (a look
into Boley’s Bookstore
where genial Dr. Easter
might be found brows-
ing), and some account
of the local “calico”—
in every age of interest
to students. At last, af-
ter an anti-climatic post-
graduate year, armed
with two degrees and a
Phi Beta Kappa _ key
(which was treated by
its owner to an auxiliary
ritual not ordinarily pre-
scribed by the austere
organization), Tom Su-
grue set his face toward
the cruel, depression-
ridden world. Of his
journalistic career in
New York there is un-
fortunately no room to
speak; that, and _ brief
accounts of trips to far
places, his marriage and
the coming of his baf-
fling illness, round out
a challenging and beau-
tifully written narative.

THE
RISE AND FALL OF
THIRD PARTIES
William B. Hessel-
tine, B.A., ’22, is the au-
thor of “The Rise and
Fall of Third Parties,”

 

“Old George” Gets Spring Suit
[12]

Public Affairs Press, Washington, D. C. Vividly written by a
keen observer of the political scene, this fascinating book pro-
vides a timely analysis of one of the most interesting phe-
nomena of American history. Mr. Hesseltine is a B.A. of
Washington and Lee University, 1922; M.A. of the University
of Virginia, ’25, and Ph.D., Ohio State University, ’28. He is
professor of history at the University of Wisconsin.

THE HATFIELDS AND THE McCOYS

Virgil Carrington (Pat) Jones is the author of “The Hat-
fields and the McCoys,” University of North Carolina Press,
which appeared on the book-shelves on April 10, 1948.
America’s most legendary feud, fought out in the Kentucky-
West Virginia hills, was more than a strife between two
families. Before the last gun was fired two states threatened
to send troops against each other and the quarrel went to the
Supreme Court of the United States. The whole story as told
in this book is as swiftly paced as a “western.”

A native of Charlottesville, Virginia, Jones was graduated
from Washington and
Lee with the degree of
B.A. in 1930, and im-
mediately began a news-
paper career. He joined
the Curtis Publishing
Company in 1945, and
the following year was
given a six-months’
leave of absence to be-
come executive secre-
tary to Governor Wil-
liam M. Tuck, ’21, of
Virginia, who was just
taking office. His first
book, “Ranger Mosby,”
a biography of John
Singleton Mosby, the
Confederate ranger,
published in 1944, found
an immediate place
among the season’s best
sellers.

NEWSWEEK
CARRIED STORY
OF W. and L.

A full page story, in-
cluding a photo of the
campus and prints of
George Washington and
Robert E. Lee, was car-
ried in the April 26 edi-
tion of Newsweek. The
story is devoted to an
account of the history
of the school, comments

on several prominent
alumni, the traditions
and growth of Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity, and a descrip-
tion of George Wash-
ington’s gift of canal

stock one hundred and
fifty years ago.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Raymon T. Johnson Died March 25th

By Charley McDowell

Dr. Raymon T. Johnson, who died on March 25, 1948,
came to Washington and Lee when he was twenty-eight years
old and since that time spent his whole life with us, except
for two short periods in the practice, one year in Louisviile
and two years with the legal department of R.C.A.-Victor.
A graduate of the University of Chicago Law School, he was
recommended to Washington and Lee by Dean Hall, one of
the great authorities on Constitutional
Law at that time. He has frequently told
other members of the faculty that Dean
Hall strongly advised his coming here
because of his own personal admiration
for John Randolph Tucker.

President Gaines has said of him, “Dr.
Johnson was one of a small group of truly
brilliant teachers.” If the testimony of
his students is to be valued, he was an
outstanding teacher from the beginning.
An unusual combination of talents con-
tributed to this success. The forceful
manner of speech, which had won him
the captaincy of the debating teams at
both the University of Kentucky and the
University of Chicago, would have been
an asset to any law teacher; his mastery
of his subjects was even more important,
but the attributes which set him apart
were more intimately personal. By his
own contagious love of fun, he somehow
managed to make otherwise boring cases
delightfully entertaining. He loved all
forms of humor, from the subtlest irony
to the lowliest wise-crack. The laughter
that came from his classroom was. al-
ways sudden and spontaneous. He sel-
dom told jokes or related anecdotes. His humorous remarks
were provoked by whatever happened to come up naturally,
and most of his famous “wisecracks” were at his own ex-
pense. Many visitors to the University attended his classes
and were always rewarded with some very good laughs. But
they saw more than a born humorist; they saw an intensely
earnest man, with a natural talent for the law, doing a great
job of teaching. His lectures were often unplanned responses
to questions from the class. A knack for the right word in the
right place and a quick illustration usually hinted the answer,
at the same time doing the student the courtesy of allowing
him to think he had worked the problem out all by himself.

A conservative in economics and in the fields of govern-
ment and social problems, Dr. Johnson was a zealous defender
of personal freedoms. Few of his admirers ever left his
courses without a greater respect for the dignity of one single
human being. While he loved the law as few men do, he
seemed to think there was entirely too much of it. During
his early experience in the Law School, on account of changes
in the faculty, he was obliged to take over some new subject
nearly every year. This apparent misfortune resulted, how-
ever, in his acquiring a very broad knowledge of the whole
field of law and a much better perspective than can ever be
acquired by narrow specialists.

me

 

Dr. Johnson was of great help in launching the Law Re-
view, and gave generously of his time in helping the student
editors. In 1929, he wrote an article for the Kentucky Law
Review, advocating the overthrow of the great case of Swift
v. Tyson, which he believed not only created confusion but
also seriously endangered the continued dominance of state
law in cases in which the parties were before the Federal
courts on the grounds of diversity of
citizenship. In 1938, that case was over-
ruled by one of the most far-reaching de-
cisions of our generation, the case of Erie
Railroad Company v. Thompkins, which
cited Professor Johnson’s article in the
opinion.

During his more than twenty-years at
Washington and Lee, Dr. Johnson ren-
dered a great service to the University
as a whole, in addition to the Law School.
He has been a member of the Executive
Committee of the Faculty, the Advisory
Committee to the President, and Presi-
dent of the Faculty Club. As a member
of the University Athletic Committee, he
has been of great assistance to Captain
Dick Smith, and as a guest speaker, by
alumni request, he has traveled thous-
ands of miles with Cy Young.

When Mr. Johnson first came to Lex-
ington he lived with his friend Clayton
Williams, later moving to Monroe Park.
That Raymon Johnson was a good neigh-
bor is attested by the life-long devotion
of his neighbors in “Monroe Park” in-
cluding Tex Tilson, Cy Young, Allen
Penick, Dick Smith, Bob Hutcheson and
Leonard Helderman who spent many pleasant hours visit-
ing back and forth with “Johnnie,” and who will always re-
member him as a delightful companion and friend. Some of
us will never forget the contests between Bob Hutcheson
and Forest Fletcher on one side and “Johnnie” and Larry
Watkin on the other, settling what only they considered
the Lexington Horseshoe Championship, in the Johnson
back yard; nor will we forget the great games of Keeley
pool that Johnson and Dickey and Larry and Cy used to
carry on during the late afternoons of the long winter months:
nor will those of us in the Law School forget the intermin-
able arguments over “jurisdiction” that went on the year
round between Johnson and “Boss” Moreland, whom John-
son probably loved more than anyone outside his own family.

Raymon Johnson was brought up in Stamping Ground,
Kentucky, a village located in Scott County near Georgetown
and not many miles from Frankfort. An orphan from a very
early age, he lived with an uncle and aunt whom he regarded
as father and mother. He attended preparatory school at
serea, Kentucky, and college at the University of Kentucky.
At the University he was chairman of the University Execu-
tive Committee and gave a great deal of time to debating.
When the anti-evolution bill was debated in the Kentucky
legislature, the University was called upon to express its

[13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

opinion. The President of the University appointed Raymon
Johnson to speak for the students, and as an undergraduate,
he spoke before the joint session of the Senate and House. The
anti-evolution bill was defeated.

Three years after coming to Lexington, Dr. Johnson was
married to Miss Mary Lee Coleman, of Mt. Washington,
Kentucky, a cousin of his closest friend at the University
of Kentucky, with whom he practiced law in Louisville for
one year. Her death in an automobile accident in 1940 was
one of the saddest incidents in Lexington of recent years.
Raymon and Mary Lee Johnson are survived by one son,
Charles, seventeen years old, who is now living with Judge
and Mrs. D. Allen Penick in Lexington.

Not only has the Law School lost a great teacher, but the
faculty of Washington and Lee and the community have lost
a friend of unusual human qualities. As for the present stu-
dent body of the Law School, their personal devotion and
feeling of bereavement is enough to convince even the most
cynical that some men in the teaching profession do have a
quality of personality that make it possible for them to bridge
the gorge that divides the generations.

 

On the Campus
(Continued from page 8)

tributed by the sponsoring Washington and Lee Camera Club.
Students from the University of Tennessee, Georgia Tech and
Randolph-Macon College won first, second and third places,
respectively, in the competitions open only to college amateur
photographers. The sponsoring W. and L. club, whose en-
tries were not allowed in the general competitions, submit-
ted 30 outstanding prints with first honors going to William
A. Gregory, Jr., of Griffin, Georgia, for an outdoor shadow
study, entitled “Sunlight and Shadows.”

eS TR RE mS |

SPRING DANCE SET

Featuring Johnny Archer and his orchestra, the Spring
Dance Set, April 16-17, were the best attended dances, other
than Fancy Dress, this year. Interspersed between the Cotil-
lion Club Formal on Friday night and the Sigma Nu In-
formal Saturday night, were many fraternity house parties,
making almost a continuous performance during the week-
end. The Cotillion Club figure was led by Paul Murphy,

president of the set.

x* * * * *

TROUBADOURS

Two plays produced by the Troubadours, “Front Page,”
on December 9-13, and “Shadow and Substance,” on March
17, under the management of Director Bob Gilbert, have
been worthy of the high standards of the organization. The
third and last play of this session, “Drink Deep,” will be pro-
duced in May. This play was written by Washington and Lee
students, Bernard Kaplan and Irwin Safchik, was chosen by
the Executive Committee of the Troubadours in connection
with a plan for presenting each year a play written by a stu-
dent.

i ee ee

APPOINTED COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN

Charles R. McDowell, of the Washington and Lee Law
School faculty, has been appointed chairman of the com-
mittee on uniform state laws by John L. Walker, president
of the Virginia State Bar Association. Other members of the

law school faculty who are active in the association are Dean
Clayton Williams, ’12, who is a member of the committee on
legal education and admission to the bar and Charles P. Light,
who is a member of the committee on administrative law.
Stuart Moore, °14, of Lexington, Virginia, is also a member
of the committee on legal education and admission to the
bar, and James M. Davidson, Jr., ’38, also of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, is a member of the committee for younger members of

the bar.
* * ok * *

LESSING J. ROSENWALD, SPEAKER

Sponsored by the Bicentennial Committee and the In-
ternational Relations Club, Lessing J. Rosenwald, president
of the American Council for Judaism, spoke at a meeting in
Lee Chapel on May 14, his subject being “The International
Aspects of the Jewish Problem.”

Mr. Rosenwald is a retired executive of Sears, Roebuck
and Company. Since his retirement he has been chairman of
trustees of the Rosenwald Fund, which carries on the philan-
thropic activities of his father.

ue bs eee
SIPA CONFERENCE

Experienced newsmen, including columnist Marquis
Childs and cartoonist Alex Raymond, met on the campus
with some 500 high and prep-school students from all over
the South, in the 19th annual Southern Interscholastic Press
Association, April 30-May 1. Delegates to the convention
were boys and girls who publish high school yearbooks and
newspapers. The convention was sponsored by the Lee Me-
morial Journalism Foundation under the direction of Prof.
O. W. Riegel.

x * * * *

JOURNALISM DEPARTMENT LAUDED

Speaking at the annual meeting of the American Society
of Newspaper Editors, held in Washington, D. C., Alexander
F. (Casey) Jones, member of the accrediting committee for
Journalism Schools, made a report on the visit of his com-
mittee to Washington and Lee this spring. We quote, in part,
from his statement as published in Editor and Publisher of
April 24, 1948:

“We went down to Washington and Lee University, at
Lexington, Virginia. It is a small school of one thousand
students. O. W. Reigel is dean of the journalism school....
When you go into that place you find an AP ticker. You find
a universal copy desk. You find all the day’s newspapers. You
find every periodical. You find a beautiful library, and you
find a bunch of boys who are up to date on continuous studies
in newspaper work.

“They take the boys up to Roanoke from Washington
and Lee and let them get out the newspaper at certain times.
They take them to Waynesboro and have them write edi-
torials and get out the newspaper there. They have their own
little shop with one Linotype. They get out a_ beautiful
quarterly. They get out a fine newspaper, and there are only
about 15 boys who are seniors this year.

“The Fishburns of Roanoke have appropriated $25,000 to
bring in good lecturers for the journalism school, and the day
we were there Hodding Carter was giving a lecture. Those
Loys are getting something, and the reason for it is the news-
paper men in the community are taking an active part in it,
and I do not care whether it is a calling or what it is, those
boys down there are red hot, and I would hire any one of
them at any time.”

[14]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

With the Local Chapters

ALEXANDRIA, LOUISIANA

Washington and Lee alumni and guests held a banquet
meeting in the Bentley Room of the Hotel Bentley, Alex-
andria, Louisiana, on April 6, 1948. George M. Foote, °40,
and Lamar Polk, *15, were in charge of arrangements.

The moving picture of activities on the campus of Wash-
ington and Lee and the history of the school, was shown.

AUGUSTA COUNTY, VIRGINIA

Some forty Washington and Lee alumni and their wives
met for dinner at Hotel Ingleside, Staunton, Virginia, on
March 25, with chapter president Fred Cook, ’33, presiding.

Dr. L. J. Desha, director of the Bicentennial Fund, was
the principal speaker of the evening. The sound-color movie
of the University was shown. Fred Cook, ’33, was re-elected
president of the chapter, T. R. (Cap) Nelson, ’25, vice-presi-
dent, and Wilfred Webb, ’22, secretary.

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

About seventy-five alumni, undergraduates home for their
spring vacation, and guests met for dinner at The Engineer’s
Club, Baltimore, Maryland, on March 31. Among the guests
present were some fifteen high school seniors who are in-
terested in entering Washington and Lee. Larry Galloway,
43, president of the chapter, presided. The sound-color mov-
ing picture of the University, “Two Centuries of Service,”
was shown. David Lewis, °46, is secretary-treasurer of the
chapter. The honor guest of the evening was Mr. Cecil Isbell,
coach of the Baltimore Colts of the All-American Football
Conference, who showed films of the Colts-San Francisco
49ers football game.

CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

Washington and Lee alumni and friends of the institution
met for dinner at the Daniel Boone Hotel on March 30, 1948,
inaugurating the Bicentennial Fund endowment campaign.
Lee Kenna, ’40, president of the local alumni chapter, presided,
and John C. Morrison, ’25, introduced Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines, president of Washington and Lee University, who was
the speaker of the evening. John J. D. Preston, ’13, and John
C. Morrison, ’25, are co-chairmen for the Bicentennial obser-
vance. Plans are being made to encourage contributions to
the Bicentennial scholarship and expansion from local alumni
and friends. Already provisions have been made to establish
scholarships honoring four former Charlestonians who lost
their lives in World War II. About 200 alumni and guests
attended the meeting. Following Dr. Gaines’ address the
sound-color motion picture, depicting the growth of the
University and activities on the campus, was shown.

CUMBERLAND, MARYLAND

The spring dinner meeting of Upper Potomac Chapter,
Washington and Lee Alumni Association was held at The
Cumberland Country Club, Cumberland, Maryland, on April
2, 1948. Art Lewis, head football coach, and Carl Wise, back-
field coach and head basketball coach, were present from the
University. J. Goodloe Jackson, president of the chapter, was
re-elected for a five-year term and presented with a set of

the Washington and Lee commemorative plates, in apprecia-
tion of his outstanding services to the organization.

Among the thirty persons present were the coaches and
football players of five schools in the tri-state area.

JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI

About 100 alumni and friends of Washington and Lee met
for dinner in the Victory Room of the Hotel Heidelberg, Jack-
son, Mississippi, on the evening of March 17, 1948, opening the
Bicentennial fund campaign. Pactically the whole State was
represented, from Tupelo on the North to the Gulf Coast on
the South. Sherwood Wise, ’32, was in charge of the meet-
ing and introduced Dr. Francis P. Gaines, the speaker of the
evening. The sound-color movie was shown.

MERIDIAN, MISSISSIPPI

Twenty-three Washington and Lee alumni met for din-
ner at Weidman’s Restaurant on February 23, 1948, with
Gibson Witherspoon, ’25, presiding. Gibson Witherspoon
and Jim Wilbourn, ’27 are co-chairmen of the Bicentennial
Regional Committee. Among those present were: Mr. and
Mrs. Gibson Witherspoon, Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Minnice, Mr.
and Mrs. Tom Peter, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Hopkins, Mr. and
Mrs. A. L. Cahn, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Seale, Mr. and Mrs.
Cliff Hemming, Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Simpson, Mr. and Mrs.
James Cox Wilbourn, and Robert Loeb. The sound-color
moving picture, “Two Centuries of Service,” was shown.

MOBILE, ALABAMA and PENSACOLA, FLORIDA

Mobile, Alabama, and Pensacola, Florida, held a joint
meeting of alumni and friends of Washington and Lee in the
Skylounge of the beautiful Grand Hotel, Point Clear, Ala-
bama, on Monday, April 19, 1948, with a good turnout from
both places, 75 alumni and guests being present. Dr. Gaines
was the speaker of the evening and the moving picture, “Two
Centuries of Service,” was shown. Turner Rice, ’24, of Mo-
bile, presided. Bicentennial chairmen in charge of arrange-
ments were Robert Bacon, ’29, of Mobile, and Frontis Sher-
rill, ’*28, of Pensacola.

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Approximately fifty alumni and friends of the University
met for dinner in the St. Charles Hotel, New Orleans, on
April 16th. Honor guests of the evening were: Dr. Francis
P. Gaines, president of Washington and Lee, and vice-presi-
dent and Mrs. Morris of Tulane University. Herbert Jahncke,
30, presided. He writes: “Dr. Gaines delivered a most in-
spiring and interesting address.” The moving picture, “T’'wo
Centuries of Service,” was shown.

WINSTON-SALEM, NORTH CAROLINA

A group of forty-two alumni and friends of Washington
and Lee met for dinner at the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina, on March 30, to hear Dr. Walter
A. Flick outline plans for the Bicentennial celebration next
year. James R. Fain, °19, president of the City National Bank,
was in charge of the meeting. Mrs. Flick accompanied Dr.
Flick and Mr. Fain writes: “They were the inspiration and
the success of the party.” The sound-color moving picture,
“Two Centuries of Service,” was shown.

[ 15 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1887
Rev. Brown Craig Pat-
terson, for 48 years Mis-

sionary of the Southern Pres-
byterian Church in China, is
now retired and living at
Route 2, Staunton, Virginia.
A school has just be founded
and named for Dr. Patter-
son at Kiangsu, Suining,
China, which he says is a
lineal descendent of Wash-
ington and Lee. The name of

 

Let us remind you again that the material from which
these notes was compiled consists of letters received by
the class agents during last spring and summer and
from questionnaires returned by alumni during that
period. If the notes are not up-to-date, we would ap-
preciate any further information you can let us have. It
is especially important, now that an alumni directory
is being compiled, for publication during the Bicen-
tennial year, that you keep us posted as to changes of
address, occupation, etc.

four in Seattle, still preach-
ing every Sunday. He was
ordained on June 6, 1898,
and on June 9 (some will
remember) he was married
to Miss Sadie Alexander
McCorkle of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, a daughter of an alum-
nus of Washington and Lee
University, long mayor of
Lexington, and one of the
founders of the Kappa Alpha
fraternity. Going as mis-

 

 

the school is Teh Sheng
Manuel Training School, Teh Sheng being part of Dr. Pat-
terson’s Chinese name, Pat-Teh-Sheng meaning “Producing
Virtue.”

1892

W. G. Wiglesworth is vice-president of Wiglesworth To-
bacco Warehouse Company, Cynthiana, Kentucky. His son,
W. G., Jr., A.B. °35, and daughter, Winifred, both now dis-
charged from the service, are again at home.

William C. Morton is Clerk of the Circuit Court of Berke-
ley County, Martinsburg, West Virginia. He has been super-
intendent of public schools at Newport News, Virginia, and
Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1893

Dr. Harry W. Pratt has been professor of Philosophy at
Columbia Bible College, Columbia, South Carolina, since
1931. He writes that since 1931 one hundred and eighty of
his pupils have gone out as foreign missionaries. He preaches
in rural churches and says that he drives his Ford car, which
is ten year old, 1,000 miles per month.

George C. Martin is farming at Keo, Arkansas.

1894

D. Lawrence Groner, Chief Justice of the United States
Court of Appeals, Washington, D.C., has recently retired.
He has had an unusually illustrious career, having successful-
ly been an active practicing lawyer, United
States attorney, a Federal district judge, a
jurist on the United States Court of Appeals,
and more later its presiding officer. Judge
Groner received the honorary degree of LL.D.
from Washington and Lee in 1933.

Dr. Frank Hopkins received his M.D. de-
gree from the University of Pennsylvania, in
1895. He is practicing his profession in Hot
Springs, Virginia.

Leslie M. Crouch is a member of the law

1895

 

sionaries to West Africa on
the equator, where she died five months later.

1896

J. E. Burwell has been Trial Justice of Floyd County,
Virginia, since 1934, and Commissioner of Accounts of this
county since 1920. Address: Floyd Courthouse, Virginia.

Marion W. Ripy, class agent for 1896, is practicing law at
4 East 43rd Street, New York, New York.

1897

Edward Sidney Zollman of 820 East 60th Street, Tacoma,
Washington, has sent to the Alumni Office clippings from the
Tacoma News Tribune covering an article entitled “How
Did Washington Really Look?,” illustrated with eight photo-
graphs of paintings by contemporary artists, their portrayals
differing greatly. The only Washington portrait now extant,
of those painted before the revolution, hangs in the Lee
Chapel on the Washington and Lee campus. It was painted by
Charles Wilson Peale in 1772 at Mount Vernon when Wash-
ington was 40. Mr. Zollman has been a resident of Tacoma
tor 40 years, is an organist in one of the large churches there,
having taken his first organ lessons on the old pipe organ in
Lee Chapel while he was a student here.

1898

Charles J. Faulkner, recently general counsel and mem-
ber of the executive committee of Armour & Company, Chi-
cago, has retired and is now living at his old
home in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1901
John W. Johnson is in the investment and
real estate business in Tuscumbia, Alabama.
1902

J. Wood Glass is a member of the law firm
of Glass and Chappell, Nowata, Oklahoma.

D. E. Witt is State Agent for the New

firm of Crouch and Crouch, 107A East Wall, Hampshire Fire Insurance Company, with
Harrisonville, Missouri, representing many = | offices in the Krise Building, Lynchburg, Vir-
corporations and firms. uA (<7 =a tf 7 Loe jj iLL. ginia. ee

C. J. Boppell is celebrating on June 6, fifty
years in the active ministry, the last twenty-

 

Robert Tate Wallace
Monticello
Florida.

is Minister of the

Presbyterian Church, Monticello,

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Dr. Joseph D. Collins is Chief of Staff and Consulting Sur-
geon King’s Daughters Hospital, Portsmouth, Virginia; Chief
Surgeon Seaboard Air Line Railroad Company; Chief Sur-
geon Baltimore Steam Packet Company and Consulting Sur-
geon Norfolk and Western Railroad Company. He is a Fel-
low of the American College of Surgeons. Address: 607 Court
Street, Portsmouth, Virginia.

R. T. Flanary finds plenty of work to do with the Norton
Hardware Company, Norton, Virginia, and operating a couple
of cattle farms and some banking.

1904

James W. Harman is practicing law in Tazewell, Vir-
ginia. He has two sons now at Washington and Lee, James
W., Jr., and Samuel Laird.

Alex V. Allain is a planter living in Jeanerette, Louisiana.

R. J. Dillard is living at R. R. No. 1, Box 29, Madisonville,
Texas.

1905

Haney B. Conner is with the Donaldson State Bank, Don-
aldson, Louisiana. He says: “I deem it an honor to be recog-
nized as one of the alumni of an institution of such high
ethical standards and moral and spiritual influence.”

1906

Frank K. Rader is President of The Conservative Life
Insurance Company, Wheeling, West Virginia.

Henry C. Tillman is practicing law with offices in the
First National Bank, Tampa, Florida. He served as State
Senator from Florida from 1934 to 1938, and is Chairman
of the Tampa Utility Board.

Claude P. Light has supplemented the general run of law
practice in Parkersburg, West Virginia, by serving as Com-
missioner in Chancery. In addition to his professional duties
he has found time to take on various activities in community
service such as president of the Y.M.C.A., work with the Red
Cross, Boy Scouts and the Presbyterian Church.

Ira T. Ritenour, after engineering work with various rail-
ways, began farming in 1915 and has been at it ever since. His
address is Pendroy, Montana.

1907

Henry W. Miller is head of the department of Mechanism
and Engineering Drawing at the University of Michigan.
Speaking of the enormously increased enrollment in all col-
leges and universities, he says: “For the first time in our
existence as teachers we find that we have classes of deadly
serious men who never complain, and who work very hard.”

1908

William S. Graham is District Manager of Eastern Gas
and Fuel Association, 604 Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia. He has a married daughter and two sons who have
returned safely from the war.

C. L. Green is County Superintendent, Board of Educa-
tion, Robeson County, Lumberton, North Carolina.

Robert R. Gray is Pastor of the Union and Salem Presby-
terian Churches, Union, West Virginia, where he has lived

for the past 36 years, within five miles of the home of his
childhood and his forebears for six generations. His two
daughters are married and he has four grandsons; one daugh-
ter and her husband are missionaries in the Belgian Congo.

W. P. Hooper is serving his 29th year as Minister of the
Highlawn Presbyterian Church, Huntington, West Virginia.
He has one child and two grandchildren.

Alan Porter Lee has changed the location of Alan Porter
Lee, Incorporated, Engineers, to 150 Broadway, New York 7,
New York. He has traveled a great deal recently, spending
much of the time in India.

1909

J. Preston Irwin is Assistant Chief Engineer with Arthur
G. McKee & Company, engineers and contractors, 2300
Chester Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

Sam M. Engelhardt is a member of the insurance firm of
Engelhardt and Garland, 801 Bell Building, Montgomery,
Alabama.

Dr. W. E. Moreland has been practicing medicine in
Powahatan, Louisiana, for about thirty years. He has a large
family circle, wife, children, grandchildren and in-laws, all
living near Powahatan.

J. J. Forrer is a Maintenance Engineer with the Virginia
Department of Highways, 1221 East Broad Street, Richmond,
Virginia.

Harold Houston Leach is a retired minister of the Pres-
byterian Church, living at 129 Terry Street, Staunton, Vir-
ginia.

William T. Delaplaine is editor and co-publisher of the
Frederick News and Post, Frederick, Maryland, and owner
and manager of Guynn Orchards.

George J. Dominick is manager of territory of East Ken-
tucky and South West Virginia, for the Sherwin-Williams
Company. He has been with this company since 1919, Ad-
dress: 3343 Kenilworth Drive, Knoxville, Tennessee.

C. T. Dawkins is in the general contracting business in
Tampa, Florida.

1910

James B. Denny is practicing law, with offices in the Dick-
son Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia.

David Wampler Earman is praticing law in Harrisonburg,
Virginia, president Valley Small Loan & Finance Company,
and owns and operates a farm and dairy.

Charles P. Robinson followed chemistry for 12 years after
graduation, and for the past 24 years has been with Business
Service Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, of which he is
now president. Address: 806-7 Park Building, Pittsburgh 22,
Pennsylvania.

Jesse Sumrall, after practicing law in Seattle, Washing-
ton for 25 years, retired on July 1, 1946, and searched for a
quiet spot to live in. He settled on Descanto, California, and
says; “Descanto is such a place. A beautiful, but almost wild
section 35 miles east of San Diego, 4000 feet above sea, and
the hills green to the tip top, covered with huge spreading
oaks overreaching large rocks that are sometimes as large
as a house. These hills are spattered all over with retired city

folk.”

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lester B. Dutrow has been City Manager, Front Royal,
Virginia, since 1930.

Wyatt C. Hedrick is an architect with offices at 1005 First
National Bank Building, Fort Worth, Texas.

1911

An apology and a correction. In a note in the February is-
sue of the Alumni Magazine we stated that W. Dudley Rucker
is Chief Engineer of the Southern Railway Company in
Washington, D.C. Mr. Rucker is Assistant Office Engineer
in the Chief Engineer’s office, The Chief Engineer being Mr.
J. B. Akers, ‘04. We got our alumni engineers confused.

Michael Brown, president of the M. Brown Timber Com-
pany, has been in the timber business ever since leaving Wash-
ington and Lee. His home is in Matawan, New Jersey, and
his family consists of a wife and daughter, Patricia, who re-
cently graduated from St. Mary’s Hall, Burlington, New
Jersey.

F. P. Guthrie, Assistant Vice-President, R. C. A. Com-
munications, Inc., 1625 K Street, Washington, D. C., says he
has nothing new to report since last year. His daughter is
now thirteen and he has a young son, Jack, who will be ready
for Washington and Lee in about six years.

W. C. Armentrout is District Manager for The Equitable
Life Assurance Society in Elkins, West Virginia.

A. Dana Hodgdon is American Consul General, American
Foreign Service, Department of State; now Consul General
at Berlin, Hamburg and Stuttgart, Germany, where he has
been since June, 1945.

1912
Notes by Class Agent

Dan Owen writes: “There is no change in my status. I
am still Manager of a co-operative farm supply business here
at Crozet, Virginia, and am happy to report that our business
is growing all the time.”

Leonard B. Ranson, District Manager Equitable Life In-
surance Company, Baltimore, Maryland—‘Had a big year in
ordinary insurance last year and working hard to beat that
record this year.”

Dr. Frank R. Ruff, Fresno, California. Like all Californi-
ans, Frank glows with pride about the charms of the Golden
West. Listen to this: “California itself is so large and so
varied in climate and natural wealth, that it staggers the
imagination. There will be a time when we will have 30 mil-
lion population. Now this is not exaggeration.... Since leav-
ing Washington and Lee and graduating in medicine my life
has been pretty full of hard work... but it has been interest-
ing, and I guess, successful.”

James Somerville (May 19, 1947). Jim is still representing
Uncle Sam. Is in his third year there but expects to be in the
States soon and hopes to visit in Lexington. He plans to re-
tire to his native town, Vaiden, Mississippi—‘where every-
one knows you by your first name.”

Rev. W. Graham Wood, Wyndale, Virginia. “I have re-
cently become pastor of the Beaver Creek, Walnut Grove
and High Point Presbyterian Churches of Washington
County, Virginia, and am very happy in my new work.”

1913

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, after graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee, received the M.D. degree from Johns-Hopkins

in 1917. His offices are at 30 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago
2, Illinois. He gets back to Lexington frequently since his
mother and other members of his immediate family live here.

M. A. Stevenson is pastor of the First Methodist Church,
Pulaski, Virginia.

Philip P. Gibson is practicing law in Huntington, West
Virginia, with offices in the First Huntington National Bank
Building. In addition to many business and civic interests
he is active in work connected with the Episcopal Church.

George West Diehl, D.D., is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Corpus Christi, Texas. “Besides the pastorate
of a large church with a large program, I have organized and
administered the Presbyterian Day School, a unique de-
parture in the field of religious education, of which you may
have heard. We began the school in 1945 with an enrollment
of 125 and we have 225 on the roster for this fall and a wait-
ing list of goodly size. We offer one section of pre-school
work and the regular six grades of the elementary schools,
maintaining the standard of the State Department of Edu-
cation. But we offer training in the Christian way of life and
have instruction in the Bible daily. The distinctiveness of the
school depends upon the educational philosophy which Mrs.
Diehl and I have developed out of our years of experience in
the field of education.”

Joseph Richard Mighell is Secretary and General Man-
ager Mobile Steel Company, Inc., Mobile, Alabama. He has
been with this company practically all of his business career.

1914

J. Clyde Whetzel received the M.S. degree from Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee. He is Assistant Manager of Sales, Tin Plate
Division, Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation, 434 Fifth
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Dr. Daniel C. Buchanan was born in Kobe, Japan; received
his education in this country, with an M.A. from Washington
and Lee in 1914, after which he taught English in Japanese
schools and later engaged in educational and evangelistic
work in Japan as a missionary of the Presbyterian Church
in the U.S.A. He is now a Far Eastern Specialist for the
State Department. Home address: 6911 Beverly Road, Be-
thesda 14, Maryland. He was recognized by the Japanese
Government as an authority on Shinto, and as such was
feared and blacklisted by the Japanese police both before
and during World War II.

Dr. Roy B. McKnight received his M.D. degree from the
the University of Pennsylvania in 1920 and had three years as
a Fellow at the Mayo Clinic. Since that time he has limited
his practice to general surgery in Charlotte, North Carolina,
with one of the largest goiter practices in the South. Address:
403 West Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Warren C. Brown, Jr., is District Manager of The Equi-
table Life Insurance Society, Suite 905-909 Warner Building,
Nashville, Tennessee.

1915

Judge Taylor H. Stukes is an Associate Justice Supreme
Court of South Carolina. After graduation from Washington
and Lee with the A.B. degree, received the degree of LL.B.,
cum laude, from George Washington University in 1919. He
was elected to the Supreme Court of South Carolina in 1940,

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and re-elected to a ten year term in 1942. Address: Manning,
South Carolina.

Charles T. Lile is Personnel Manager for Koppers Com-
pany, Incorporated, 320 Koppers Building, Pittsburgh 19,
Pennsylvania. He and his wife were visitors to the campus
in April.

Bob Shaw, RCA Victor Division, Harrison, New Jersey,
says he is standing up pretty well under the strain of being
twice a grandfather.

Jonah L. Larrick is Student YMCA Secretary for the
Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia. He is mar-
ried and has two daughters.

Morgan Keaton is Manager of the advertising firm of Rob-
inson & Company, Inc., 830 Market Street, San Francisco 2,
California.

1916

Lycurgus Hyre is practicing law in Buckhannon, West
Virginia.

Hunter M. Shumate is practicing law in Irvine, Kentucky.

Grady H. Forgy, recently Public Relations Counsel for
American Petroleum Institute and ten Southern States, is
now retired and living at 1015 North Beech Street, Little
Rock, Arkansas. Both of his sons are alumni of Washington
and Lee, Grady, Jr., °42, and John R., ’44.

Elwood H. Seal is practicing law at 726 Jackson Place,
N. W., Washington, D.C. His son, Alan Gordon, is now a
student at Washington and Lee.

Maurice B. Ridenour is president of Steffey and Findlay,
Inc., coal and building supplies, Hagerstown, Maryland.

L. Battle Bagley is in the general insurance business in
his home town, Fayetteville, Tennessee, associated with his
brother T Owen Bagley, ’07.

Parker W. Buhrman is Consul General at Gdansk, Po-
land, with the Department of State. He has been with the
Department since 1918 and has served in Melmo, Ceiba, Alep-
po, Berlin, Casablanca, Cologne, Lisbon, Sydney, N. S., Basel,
Glasgow, Belfast and Bratislava. He was chief of the Pass-
port Division, Department of State, 1927-1928 and during 1944
on the staff of the United States political adviser on German
Affairs, Supreme Headquarters, A. E. F.

Al Bennett is Superintendent of the Virginia Conference
Orphanage of the Methodist Church, 3900 West Broad Street,
Richmond 21, Virginia.

Russell S. Rhodes writes that there is very little change in
his situation since last year. He is still general manager of the
Chamber of Commerce, Tulsa, Oklahoma, and their program
is as busy and as heavy as ever.

1917

Robert H. Gardner is General Sales Manager for A. M.
Byers Company, Clark Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Russell H. Johnson lives at 1355 Pine Street, Wahoo,
Nebraska. He gives no personal news but extends greetings
to the entire class.

Theodore (Ted) C. Waters after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee attended Harvard Law School, and later, re-

ceived the LL.B. degree from the University of Maryland,
and has been practicing law in Baltimore, Maryland, since
1920. He is a partner in the firm of Mullikin, Stockbridge &
Waters, 10 Light Street, Baltimore 2, Maryland.

Henry J. Blackford is an investment banker, A. M. Law
& Company, Spartanburg, South Carolina. He is Chairman
of the Bicentennial Fund Campaign for Spartanburg.

James A. Lee is Managing Editor, Chemical Engineering,
McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, 330 West 42nd Street,
New York 18, New York. He was a student at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 1917-1918 and received his M.A.
degree from Columbia in 1925.

C. B. (Brownie) Blair is President of B. and O. Motor
Company, Incorporated, Wytheville, Virginia.

Dr. Charles W. McNitt, 217 North Virginia Street, Reno,
Nevada, is Regional Chairman for Nevada of the Bicenten-
nial Fund Campaign. He was in Lexington for the 30th anni-
versary reunion of his class at Finals.

1918

Sam E. Moreton, Jr., received his B.S. degree from Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology after graduation from
Washington and Lee. He is now president of Central Lum-
ber Company, Brookhaven, Mississippi.

Thomas H. (Stretch) Pratt is a Tax Consultant living near
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. His address: P. O. Box 441,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Charles Philip Hanger has recently become associated
with United Laboratories, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio, represent-
ing them in 15 counties in Virginia and West Virginia. Ad-
dress: P. O. Box 477, Staunton, Virginia.

1919

Joe B. Livesay is Minister of the First Presbyterian
Church, Center Moriches, Long Island, but hopes to be able
to return to Korea, where he was a Missionary of the Presby-
terian Church from 1923 to 1940. He was transferred to the
Philippine Islands in April, 1941 and cut off from the U.S. A.
for 41 months—in the jungle for three years—escaped to Leyte
and brought home by the U.S. Army in April, 1945.

Henry King McCormick is Director, Codell Construction,
Company, Incorporated, and partner, J. C. Codell & Com-
pany, Winchester, Kentucky.

Nelson L. Brown is in the farming and dairy business and
director and vice-president Cold Spring Cooperative Cream-
ery, Roanoke, Virginia. Address: Natural Bridge, Virginia.

John Henry Young is Assistant Manager of Residence
Halls, which houses 7,500 women employed by the Federal
Government. Address: 4432 Windom Place, N. W., Wash-
ington 16, D.C.

1920

Berkeley Cox is Associate Counsel for the Aetna Life In-
surance Company, He has five children, the oldest daughter
now a student at Sweet Briar and the oldest boy will be ready
for college this year. Address: 682 Prospect Avenue, Hart-
ford 5, Connecticut.

George S. Mueller is Research Chemist with Bell Tele-
phone Laboratories, 463 West Street, New York, New York.

[19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He has been with this organization since 1921. He is now in
general analytical work. Home address: 51 Quaker Ridge
Road, Manhasset, Long Island, New York.

Carl A. Foss is still in the Army. He was promoted to
Lieutenant-Colonel, AGD, on July 1, 1947, and appointed As-
sistant State Director, Office of Selective Service Records of
New York on July 7, 1947.

Robert Hence Young is a Mechanical Engineer with
Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corporation, Elizabeth, New
Jersey. After graduation from Washington and Lee he re-
ceived the degree of M.E. from Cornell University in 1925.
He has recently changed his residence to 201 South Union
Avenue, Cranford, New Jersey.

Robert E. Baumgardner, for the past eighteen years, has
been associated with the Maryland State Inspection and
Regulatory Service as a chemist, located at the University
of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Home address: 221
South Market Street, Frederick, Maryland.

1921

Fred C. Parks is practicing law in Abingdon, Virginia. He
is a director in the Farmers [exchange Bank of Abingdon and
connected with the famous Barter Theater.

Alfred B. Levin has been with the New York Life Insur-
ance Company for the past fifteen years. Address: 407% Main
Street, Joplin, Missouri.

Edward L. Westbrooke, Jr., after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee, attended Harvard Law School and received
the degree of J.D., from Northwestern University Law School
in 1925. He is practicing law in Jonesboro, Arkansas, with
offices at 202'4 West Washington Avenue.

John Boyd Hoke is a Civil Engineer and Contractor. He
is Chief Engineer and Secretary-Treasurer, Potomac Con-
struction Company, partner Skelly & Hoke, and partner and
General Manager, Asphalt Products Co., manufacturers of
paving materials, all of Martinsburg, West Virginia. Address:
650 West Race Street, Martinsburg, West Virginia.

Frank Mann Pollock is Manager, Tidewater Adjustment
Company, 640 New Monroe Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia.

Homer E. Henderson is Vice-President and Trust Officer
the Second National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas. Af-
ter graduation from Washington and Lee he received the
LL.B. degree from the University of Texas in 1925.

W. Braxton Dew is Associate Counsel Aetna Casualty
Company, Hartford, Connecticut. He has recently bought a
farm in the country, “Little Tuckahoe,” R. F. D., New Hart-
ford, where he is living with his wife and four children.

Dr. Daniel Blain, after graduation from Washington and
Lee, received the M.D. degree from Vanderbilt University
in 1929. He is a Specialist in Neuro-Psychiatry and Chief,
Neuro-Psychiatry Division, Veterans Administration, Wash-
ington 25, D. C. Home address: 3126 Woodley Road, N. W.,
Washington 8, D.C.

1922

Dr. Bennett F. Roberts received his medical degree from
the University of Tennessee in 1927 and did post-graduate
work at the University of Pennsylvania. He is now an eye,
ear, nose and throat specialist in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

W. A. Williams is Vice-President and Production Man-
ager of Ruffin & Payne, Inc., manufacturing mill work and
building material plant, Richmond, Virginia.

W. Frank Portlock is Vice-President of The Old Domin-
ion Tobacco Company, Norfolk, Virginia, devoting much of
his time to the government end of the business. He has been
married since 1924 and has a daughter 19 who is a student
at Connecticut College, New London, Connecticut.

Dr. J. Lindsay Patton is Rector of Grace Episcopal
Church, Colorado Springs, Colorado.

1923

Frank B. Hurt, after graduation here, received the M.A.
degree from University of Virginia and Princeton and at-
tended Johns Hopkins and Harvard. He is now head of the
History and Political Science department, Western Mary-
land College, Westminster, Maryland.

J. Bruce Gordon buys and sells lumber, timber and timber
products in Murphy, North Carolina.

W. W. (Bill) Lynn, Jr., is President and Managing Di-
rector of Hotel Carroll, Lynchburg, Virginia; also Vice-
President Longs Transfer Co., and Yellow Cab Co., and Vice-
President Southern Passenger Motor Lines, Inc.

O. Forrest McGill is Manager, New York Branch Office,
Mortgage Loan Department of the Prudential Insurance
Company of America, Suite 2770 Woolworth Building, 233
Broadway, New York, New York. Home address: 160 Pros-
pect Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

John D. T. Bold practiced law in Evansville, Indiana, from
1926 to 1942. He is now Ordnance Engineer, Small Arms
Division, Office of Chief of Ordnance, War Department,
Washington, D.C. Home address: 308 Poplar Drive, Falls
Church, Virginia.

Captain Clyde H. C. Braden has been stationed in Korea
since 1946. When his class letter was written in August he
was Chief of Operations, Office of Civil Information, which
is a special staff organization of the U. S. Army Forces in
Korea. His family, consisting of his wife, an 18 year-old son
and a two-year old son, are with him. They are settled in a
Japanese house, occupied by one of the “big wheel Japs who
ran this country and brow-beat the Koreans before the day
when the Americans landed to liberate this ancient oriental
people.”

Junius W. C. Wright is President, Security Van Service,
Inc., Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Frank L. Wall is District Sales Supervisor, Ayerst, Mc-
Kenna & Harrison, Ltd., 22 East 40th Street, New York,
New York.

1924

Stuart A. MacCorkle is Director of the Bureau of Muni-
cipal Research, University of Texas, Austin 12, Texas. After
graduation from Washington and Lee he received the M.A.
degree from the University of Virginia in 1928 and that of
Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins in 1931.

Otis W. Howe is farming on a big scale, at Wabash, Ar-
kansas, having abandoned the lumber business as they have
cut out all the timber on the family property. He has three
sons. The eldest, Otis, Jr., will enter Washington and Lee in
the near future.

[ 20 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Rev. John N. Thomas, D.D., is head of the Department
of Theology, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He is a member of the University Board of Trustees.

John G. Guerrant is Vice-President, Virginia Paper Com-
pany, wholesale paper distributors, 140 Virginia Street, Rich-
mond, Virginia. He has been with this company in various
capacities since 1924.

Dr. Joe S. McMath is practicing medicine in Cincinnati,
Ohio. Home Address: 233 Reilly Road, Wyoming, Cincinnati
15, Ohio.

1925

John C. Morrison has been continuously engaged in the
practice of law since 1925. He is a member of the firm of
Brown, Jackson & Knight, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia. He served as State Senator from
Kanawha County 1942-1946, and is General Counsel West
Virginia Bankers Association.

Dr. Calvin T. Burton received his M.D. degree from the
University of Virginia Medical School in 1928 and later did
post graduate work, specializing in eye, ear, nose and throat,
as a resident at the New York University Hospital. He is
now practicing in Roanoke, Virginia, with offices in the Medi-
cal Arts Building.

Maurice C. Langhorne is Professor of Psychology, Chair-
man of Psychology Department, and Assistant Registrar,
Emory University, Georgia.

Joseph M. Holt has resigned his position with the Law
Department of Radio Corporation of America, and is now
practicing law in his home town, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

M. R. Bruin, Jr., until recently principal of Falls Church
High School, is now business manager of the Y.M.C.A.
Schools, Central Y.M.C.A. Building, Washington, D.C.,
Home address: 523 Great Falls Street, Falls Church, Virginia.

1926

Dr. Thomas R. Nichols has been in private practice in
Morganton, North Carolina, since 1935. Address: 206 North
Sterling Street, Morganton, North Carolina.

Lee O. Fagan is Traveling Auditor for Atlantic Greyhound
Corporation, Charleston, West Virginia.

James Lukin Brown is a druggist, farmer and writer, liv-
ing in Silex, Missouri.

Paul M. (Si) Schuchart is Vice-President and General
Manager of the Southeastern Telephone Company, Talla-
hassee, Florida. He is author of an article “Telephone Traf-
fic Engineering,” which has been published in Telephony.

Thomas P. Foley is Manager, Consumers Credit Depart-
ment, State-Planters Bank & Trust Company, Richmond,
Virginia.

1927

David A. McCandless has recently been appointed City
Safety Director of Louisville, Kentucky. His background of
experiences makes him well-fitted for his new position. As
Assistant City Attorney he has had experience in the City
Government; as prosecuter in Police Court he worked close-
ly with the police department in the prosecution of traffic
offenders; and as former State Senator from the 38th dis-

trict, he received a grounding in State Affairs. As boss of
Louisville’s police force, he will have almost unlimited powers
in control of police activities. In World War II he was a
Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Naval Reserve—Air Combat
Intelligence.

(Notes by Class Agent, George Burks)

Matt Jennings, Fayetteville, Tennessee: “I am now 40 and
fattening, bald-headed but happy. I married Elizabeth Gos-
som from Oklahoma in 1930 and we have a 12-year-old son.”
Matt is interested in breeding registered Jersey cattle. For
the past seven years he has been secretary-treasurer of the
Tennessee Jersey Cattle Club, the largest State Jersey Club
in America. Also is connected with the Department of Agri-
culture, State of Tennessee, as Chief of Division of Markets.
He and his brother, Jim, also a classmate, operate two sep-
arate 300 acre farms.

Joe L. Lanier, West Point, Georgia: “I am happily mar-
ried, have three nice children and am in the cotton textile
business.”

Briggs Lawson, Shelbyville, Kentucky, owns the Briggs
Store for Men. He lists so many civic and church hon-
ors, I'll mention only two: Past President Shelby County
Chamber of Commerce, and President Shelbyville Rotary
Club. Has two children, boy 15, girl 12. “Still in love with my
wife. Took my last drink in 1931.”

Al Z. Litz, Jr., Tazewell, Virginia, spent 34 years in ser-
vice with 20 months in Europe in five campaigns.

Gossett McRae, 122 East 36th Street, New York, New
York, with Waterman Steamship Corporation. About ten
years ago was transferred from Mobile to New York. Mar-
ried and has a son four years of age. Says he enjoys attend-
ing alumni meetings in New York City.

1928

A. W. Pierpont is teaching in the Department of Eco-
nomics, University of North Carolina. He received the de-
gree of M.B.A. from Harvard Graduate Business School in
1931, and is now working toward the Ph.D. degree. Address:
P. O. Box 1138, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

Garland H. Hayes is assistant vice-president of the Bank-
ers’ Trust Company, New York, New York.

Walter D. Bach is secretary-treasurer of Sherrill Oil Com-
pany, Pensacola, Florida, and Director, Sherrill Terminal
Company. He has been connected with this company since
graduation. Address: 1817 East LaRue Street, Pensacola,
Florida.

Percy Cohen has been continuously connected with the
H. Cohen Furniture Company of Nashville, Tennessee, since
1928. He is now President of the company.

1929

John D. Stanard is head of his own news gathering or-
xanization, John D. Stanard News Service, representing lead-
ing national trade publications, magazines and newspapers.
He is married and lives atop Lookout Mountain. Address:
P. O. Box 306, Chattanooga 1, Tennessee.

Arnold Schlossberg is practicing law and in the lumber
and’ building material business at 127 Center Avenue, Roan-
oke, Virginia. He is President of Central Manufacturing Cor-

[ 21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

poration and of Central Housing Corporation. After leaving
Washington and Lee he received the B.S. and LL.B. degrees
from Harvard.

Albert Peyton Bush, Jr., is with Bush Securities Com-
pany, Investment Securities, 416 First National Annex, Mo-
bile, Alabama.

S. J. Thompson is Commonwealth’s Attorney, Rustburg,
Virginia, which office he has held since 1936. He was a mem-
ber of the House of Delegates 1932-1933.

William A. McDonough is sales manager, Home Appli-
ance Department, General Mills, Incorporated, 1620 Central
Avenue, Minneapolis 13, Minnesota.

J. Miller Sherwood is vice-president of Sherwood Brothers,
Inc., Petroleum Products, 1437 Baltimore Trust Building,
Baltimore, Maryland. He has been with the company since
graduation here.

William C. Watson, after receiving his discharge from the
Navy as a Lieutenant Commander, is now with the Standard
Vacuum Oil Company in Hong Kong, China. He was mar-
ried in Hong Kong on January 4, 1947, to Elizabeth Otey of
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Irwin T. Sanders is head of the Department of Sociology,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky. He served as
teacher and dean of the American College, Sofia, Bulgaria,
1929-1932 and 1934-1937, and has been teaching at the Uni-
versity of Kentucky since 1940.

1930

F. Wayne Fesenmyer is Director, Executive Vice-Presi-
dent and Treasurer of the following corporations: Minard
Run Oil Company, Emery Hardware Company, and Lobdell-
Kmery Manufacturing Company, 45 Main Street, Bradford,
Pennsylvania.

Howerton Gowen is President Howerton Gowen & Com-
pany, Manufacturers of industrial and agricultural chemicals,
Box 247, Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.

Russell O. Morrow is a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives from Palm Beach, Florida. Address: 701 South “J”
Street, Lake Wales, Florida.

Julian H. Black is President of the Seven-Up Bottling
Company, Staunton, Virginia. He practiced law in Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee, until entering the service in 1941.

James William Davis is a news editor with the Associated
Press, 330 Star Building, Washington, D. C.

Robert E. Clapp, Jr., after graduation here, received the
LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School in 1933; entered the
private practice of law, in Frederick, Maryland; was elected
to the State Legislature in 1938; and appointed Assistant At-
torney-General of Maryland in 1939; served as Judge Advo-
cate General at various posts during the war and upon his
release re-entered the private practice of law.

1931

Talcott C. Lancaster is now permanently located with
United States Vanadium Corporation, Metal Chemicals Divi-
sion, Niagara Falls, New York. He has recently bought a
home there and his residence address is 930 Harrison Avenue,
Niagara Falls, New York.

John Kell Martin, Jr., has been appointed Manager of the
Atlanta, Georgia, Agency of the Life Insurance Company of
Virginia, with offices at 1517 The 22 Marietta Building, At-
lanta, Georgia.

John M. Stemmons is President, Industrial Properties
Corporation, Realtors, 401 Republic Bank Building, Dallas
1, Texas.

Binford E. Parker is Manager of the Parker Peanut Com-
pany, Suffolk, Virginia.

Dr. Huger T. Hall received his medical degree from the
Medical College of the State of South Carolina, in 1934, and is
practicing at 525 Whiskey Road, Aiken, South Carolina. He
owns and operates a farm and is Commissioner of Public
Works.

Dr. John O. McNeel received his medical degree from the
University of Virginia Medical School in 1935, and is prac-
ticing his profession with offices at 201 Securities Building,
Seattle 12, Washington.

Rev. John T. Raymond is Rector of St. James Episcopal
Church, Sonora, California. He writes that they are living in
the center of the Old Mother Lode country and that his
church, built 10 years after the gold rush of °49, is located
right over the site of the Bonanza mine. He says: “At night
I imagine I hear them working in the shafts—but not many
of them come up for church.”

Manuel M. Weinberg has practiced law in Frederick,
Maryland, since graduation from Washington and Lee, with
the exception of a period of service in World War II.

Samuel A. Milliner, Jr., is Assistant to the Secretary of the
du Pont Company’s Executive Committee, E. I. du Pont de
Nemours and Company, 9066 du Pont Building, Wilmington,
Delaware.

1932

David F. Crossen won the 1947 St. Louis Award for his
work in having 7000 acres of the Weldon Spring Ordnance
Works area in St. Charles County set aside for development
into a game refuge and recreation area. The annual award of
a certificate and $1000 is given to the resident of metropolitan
St. Louis who has contributed the outstanding service to the
City’s development or has brought outstanding honor to the
community.

James E. Leslie is still living in Charles Town, West Vir-
ginia. He is with the West Virginia Department of Public
Assistance, and Pitts Theaters, Inc., in Martinsburg, West
Virginia. He is married and has two sons, Erroll J., and
James G.

Sherwood W. Wise was returned to inactive duty by the
Navy in November, 1945, and returned immediately to the
practice of law with his former partner in the firm of Ricketts
and Wise, attorneys-at-law, in Jackson, Mississippi.

John W. Ball is a member of the law firm of Stockton,
Ulmer & Murchison, Barnett National Bank Building, Jack-
sonville 2, Florida.

Robert K. Hoadley, After graduation here, received the
M.A. degree from Columbia University in 1935. He is teach-
ing English in Clayton High School, Clayton, Missouri.

James W. Smither is General Agent of The Union Cen-
tral Life Insurance Company, 2604 Coliseum Street, New

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Orleans, Louisiana. He has been with this company, serving
in various capacities, since 1930.

David George Price was demobilized from the Navy as a
Lieutenant Commander and has returned to the Bureau of
Naval Personnel in a civilian capacity as Technical Head of
the Billet and Qualifications Research Division. Home ad-
dress: 8200 Colston Place, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Collas G. Harris, released from the service with the title
of Major, is back with the National Archives as Executive
Secretary. Home address: “Detour” Route No. 1, R. F. D.,
Vienna, Virginia.

1933

Luther F. Violett, until recently District Manager, Dun
& Bradstreet, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, has been transferred
to the home office of the company, Dun Building, 290 Broad-
way, New York.

Claude LaVarre is still representing the Singer Sewing
Machine Company in Cuba, but has recently moved his resi-
dence from Santiago de Cuba to Havana. Address: Singer
Sewing Machine Company, Apartado 805, Havana, Cuba.

Frank E. Calhoun is a Civil Engineer, Head of the Speci-
fications Department and Assistant Chief Mechanical En-
gineer for Reynolds, Smith & Hills, Architects and Engineers,
10 South Laura Street, Jacksonville 2, Florida.

William F. Methvin is in the lumber business in Atlanta,
Georgia. Home address: 637 Linwood Avenue, N. E., Atlanta,
Georgia.

John L. Ericson is Prosecuting Attorney for the City of
New Britain, Connecticut.

M. H. (Mo) Crighton is with the United States Guarantee
Company—Fidelity and Surety Bonds, at 175 West Jackson
Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois.

Dr. Robert R. Smith is in the general practice of medicine
in Langhorne, Pennsylvania. Address: 123 West Maple
Avenue.

1934

Thomas D. Anderson is Vice-President and Trust Officer
of the Union National Bank, Houston, Texas.

William J. Moran is a senior chemist for the Vick Chemi-
cal Company in their laboratories at Flushing, New York. He
received his M.S. in chemistry from Brooklyn Polytechnic
Institute in 1940, and is now working toward his Ph.D. He is
married and has one daughter, Patricia Anne. Address: 239
Windsor Avenue, Rockville Centre, New York.

Captain Walter C. Johnston, A. U.S., Intelligence Section,
Air Corps, is now stationed in Germany. Home address: 2616
Hanover Avenue, Richmond 20, Virginia.

Harvey Pride is in the retail automobile and appliance
business in Decatur, Alabama.

John Hanley, local agent of the FBI, 792 29th Avenue, N.,
St. Petersburg, Florida, is the father of twin sons, now a year
old. He has already made application for their entrance to
Washington and Lee in 1969.

1935

William B. Gabb started work for Benjamin Moore &
Company, paint manufacturers in 1933, and is still with this

company. He married Cordelia Palmer in 1938, and they have
three daughters, Susan, Sally and Carolyn. Address: 550
Clark Street, Westfield, New Jersey.

James Sterrett Woods is Traffic Manager, Pennsylvania
Glass Sand Corporation, Lewiston, Pennsylvania. He is also
Vice-President, Lewiston Broadcasting Company (Radio
Station WMRF), and Altoona Broadcasting Company, (Ra-
dio Station WJSW). He has been with the Pennsylvania
Glass Company since graduation and developed radio broad-
casting in central Pennsylvania.

George Boyd, Jr., on January 1, 1948, became a member
of the law firm of Wise, Corbett & Canfield, 122 East 42nd
Street, New York, New York.

J. Geiger Henthorne is District Engineer, General Re-
fractories Company, Box “L,” Olive Hill, Kentucky.

1936

J. T. Drake, Jr., has announced the association with him
of Robert D. Gage, B.A. ’42, in the practice of law under the
firm name of Drake and Gage, at Port Gibson, Mississippi.

Milton A. Honig founded Commercial Products Company,
a chemical firm. Since that time has become interested in
“Do-All” Packaging Corporation, manufacturers of House-
hold Chemicals, and Mildon, Inc., General Exporters. Ad-
dress: 1775 Broadway, New York 19, New York.

Charles J. Mower has been a field representative of the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and is now Assistant
District Manager of the company. Address: Oates Building,
Room 308, 22 North Pack Square, Asheville, North Carolina.

John G. Fry is Comptroller, Southern Bank & Trust Com-
pany, Richmond, Virginia. Home address: 3305 Stuart Avenue,
Richmond 21, Virginia.

John D. Locke has been with S. B. Locke & Company,
Cotton Exchange, Houston, Texas, since graduation. He has
been a partner in this firm since 1946. He married Katherine
Louise Ketely in 1943 and they have two sons, Jere S., and

Stephen S.

Richard T. Scully is Assistant Sales Manager, Stern &
Company, 210 Chapel Street, Hartford, Connecticut.

Joseph J. Harding, Jr., is a wholesale distributor of gro-
ceries and hardware, with Harding Brothers, Inc., Emporia,
Virginia.

1937

Horace Z. (Zack) Kramer is associated with his father, as
Vice-President of U. S. Drug Company, 10 Claver Place,
Brooklyn 16, New York. He was married to Helen C. Knittle
on March 30, 1947.

Parke Rouse is now back on the Times-Dispatch, Rich-
mond, Virginia, after service in the Navy. His duties consist
of editorial writing and other functions in connection with
the editorial page.

Robert Edwin Graham is a realtor and contractor; Vice-
President, Radio Station WFIG, President Graham Holding
Company, City Councilman of the city of Sumter, South Caro-
lina. Address: 6 Law Range, Sumter, South Carolina.

Kenneth G. Dustin is a salesman with Arnold, Hoffman
Company, Inc., manufacturing chemists, 55 Canal Street,
Providence, Rhode Island.

[ 23 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Emerson J. Dickman, Jr., is manufacturing automobile
seat covers, 669 Montgomery Street, Jersey City, New Jer-
sey. He joined the Boston Red Sox baseball team in the sum-
mer of 1936 and played with them until called to the Navy in
1942,

M. Cowl Rider is news editor, The Richmond News Lead-
er, 110 North 4th Street, Richmond, Virginia. He married
Barbara Peters Bolt in 1938 and they have a daughter, Bar-
bara Anne, born January 9, 1940, and a son, Bruce Warwick,
born November 1, 1942.

Lynn Morris Atmar, is a banker and stock farmer, Presi-
dent of First Loan and Mortgage Company and President of
Trinity County Land and Cattle Company, Groveton, Texas.

Lamar C. Rau is in the Acquisition Department, Library
of Congress, 3600 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washington,
District of Columbia.

J. Bradley Pierce is Credit Manager, National Rockland
Bank, 30 Congress Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

1938

Saxby Tavel was married last November to Miss Phyllis
K bling of Teanech, New Jersey, and is now assigned to the
New York City Office of the F. B. I. Address: 17 Bank Street
New York, New York.

Leonard Leight is practicing law with the firm of Leight
& Nedkritz, 36 West 44th Street, New York 18, New York.

George S. Kemp is Cashier, Abbott, Proctor & Paine,
Stock Brokers, 911 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia.
He married Wilana C. May in 1945 and they have a daughter,
Barbara Ann, born September 25, 1946,

Chester P. White is manager, Wood Screw Division, Blake
& Johnson Company, Waterville, Connecticut. He married
Jane Carson in 1939 and they have three sons, Chester P., Jr.,
William Henry and Jeffrey Carson. Home address: Crest
Road, Middlebury, Connecticut.

Gerald M. Lively is practicing law with the firm of Spen-
cer, Britt & Benson, 519 Commerce Building, Kansas City
6, Missouri.

G. Newton Cox is an executive with the Coca-Cola Bot-
tling Company, 2950 North Market Street, St. Louis, Mis-
souri. He has been with this company since graduation, ex-
cept for four years service in the Navy in World War II.

Paul R. Whipp is a Social Worker for the State of Mary-
land, at 200 East Church Street, Frederick, Maryland.

Captain Thomas B. Cottingham, United States Army,
HQS, Far East Air Materiel Command, APO 323, care of
P. M., San Francisco, California. Home address, from which
mail will be forwarded: 4526 Regent Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

J. Hiram Smith, Geologist, has recently changed his ad-
dress from Denver, Colorado, to U.S. Geological Survey,
F. W. A. Building, Areal Section, Washington 25, D. C.

1939

Fred Bartenstein, Jr., has recently been made General At-
torney and head of the legal department of Merck and Com-
pany, Inc., of Rahway, New Jersey.

Robert A. Nicholson is production manager of The Uni-
versity of California Press at Berkeley, California, and an ac-
count executive for James J. Gillick & Company, printers.
The Nicholsons have two children, Robert B., 5, and Susan
Hale, 3. Robert A. Nicholson and R. E. Wade, ’93, are Bi-
centennial chairmen for Berkeley and Oakland, California.

Philip M. Grabill is practicing law with the firm of Ball
and McCarthy, Arlington, Virginia. He married Lucy C.
Calhoun on March 30, 1946.

Edgar L. Smith has been engaged in the private practice
of law in Lewisburg, West Virginia, since December 1, 1945.
He is Divorce Commissioner and Commissioner of Accounts
for Greenbriar County, West Virginia.

Robert E. Milligan received the B.S. degree in Business
Administration from Wayne University, Detroit, in 1939. He
is now Salesman, Seaman-Patrick Paper Company, 1225 Ver-
mont Avenue, Detroit 16, Michigan. He was in Army ser-
vice from August, 1942, until January, 1946.

James W. Fishel entered the advertising firm of Jasper,
Lynch and Fishel, Incorporated, immediately after gradua-
tion and is now vice-president of the firm. He was a Major in
the 6th Air Force in the Caribbean Area, during the war.

Jim Saltsman is with the Civil Aeronautics Board, 512
9th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. He married Emelie
Johnstone in 1944 and their home address is 1602 Carey Lane,
Silver Spring, Maryland.

Joseph S. Crowder, Jr., is a Minister of the Methodist
Church, Ford, Virginia. He received the degree of B.D. from
Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, after graduation from
Washington and Lee.

Addison Dimmitt, Jr., is Assistant Manager, Newman
Pharmacal Company, 318 West Main Street, Louisville, Ken-
tucky, having received his B.S. in Pharmacy from the Louis-
ville College of Pharmacy in 1942.

Elton H. (Butch) Thuran is an accountant with National
Malleable & Steel Castings Company, Cleveland, Ohio. He
married Ruth Fisher in 1944 and they have a daughter, Sally
Ann, born February 12, 1947. Home address: 8707 Detroit
Avenue, Suite No. 15, Cleveland 2, Ohio.

Chris Keller bought the Inglewood Plantation, Alexandria,
Louisiana, after returning from the service in 1945. He mar-
ried Caroline Murphy in 1940 and they have two daughters,
Caroline and Cornelia.

Robert S. Hoyt is Director of the Hansford Memorial
Hospital, Havre de Grace, Maryland. The hospital has met
all the requirements of the American College of Surgeons,
which is the highest rating that can be attained by any hospi-
tal. The Hansford Hospital has a capacity of 116 beds, is
furnished with equipment of the newest type, and is con-
sidered a model among institutions of its kind. Robert Hoyt
is the son of the late Dr. William Dana Hoyt, Professor of
Biology at Washington and Lee from 1920 to 1945. He mar-
ried Isabel Williamson of Lexington, Virginia, and they have
a son, Robert S., Jr., born September 10, 1942,

1940

Thomas Ellison Bruce, Jr., started his own business of
bookkeeping and tax service for small businesses under the
name of Dominion Bookkeeping Company in Richmond,
Virginia, in 1946. Address: Box 627, Richmond 5, Virginia.

[ 24 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lieutenant-Commander Arthur W. Mann, Jr., is staying
in the Navy. Address: Quarters I-S, Naval Supply Depot,
Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania.

Theodore Donaldson is with the City National Bank, Chi-
cago, Illinois. Home address: 110 Linden Avenue, Glencoe

Illinois.

Samuel J. Sublett, Jr., is Vice-President, Sublett Feed and
Supply Company, Bluefield, West Virginia. He is Secretary
and Director, Bluefield Junior Chamber of Commerce.

William E. Buxton is with O. A. McFall Company, Box
No. 41, Memphis, Tennessee, Brokerage, Stocks and Bonds.
Home address: 2266 Union, Memphis 4, Tennessee.

Hal B. Watterson is in the Control Division of E. I. du
Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, Delaware. He
received the B.S. degree in Business Administration from the
University of Tennessee in 1940.

Donald G. Buck is Assistant Manager, Sales Service De-
partment, American Broadcasting Company, 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York 20, New York.

Edward L. Sellers has been appointed to the staff of the
Associated Press in Washington, D.C. He was formerly
manager of Capital Airlines’ system news bureau in Wash-
ington which served 56 cities and at one time was publicity
assistant of the Norfolk and Western Railway in Roanoke,
Virginia. In his new position, Mr. Sellers is in charge of pro-
motions and sales for the AP’s Washington City News Ser-
vice and in addition serves as an editor on the city desk. Ad-
dress: 210 Star Building, Washington, D. C.

William E. Whaley, Jr., is traveling almost constantly,
selling advertising for his father, William E. Whaley Com-
pany, 901 Washington Building, Louisville, Kentucky. He
married Suzanne Whayne in 1942 and they have a daughter,
Suzanne, born in 1944, and a son William E., Jr., born in 1946.

1941

William C. Soule is a member of the Law Faculty of Wake
Forest College, Wake Forest, North Carolina.

H. Richard Sandstrom, Jr., is working with the Bankers
Trust Company, 16 Wall Street, New York. His home is in
Lebanon Springs, New York.

H. Thomas Martin is in the food brokerage business,
American Brokerage Co., Roanoke, Virginia. He is Vice-
President Roanoke Junior Chamber of Commerce.

William L. Schultheis is with the Loan Department,
Schmidt & Wilson, Incorporated, real estate, Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He married Martha Frances Cates in 1945 and their
home address is 4520 Newport Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

Jean S. Friedberg is in the tobacco business with Falls
City Tobacco Company, Louisville, Kentucky. Home address:
R. No. 1, Box 291, Buechel, Kentucky.

Kenneth B. Van de Water, Jr., is in the Commercial Print-
ing and Publishing Business, 68-70 Main Street, Hempstead,
New York. He married Mary Churchill Walker in 1943 and
they have a son Kenneth B., Jr., born, April 25, 1946.

Herbert J. Woodward is Treasurer and Business Manager
Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Virginia. He
married Helen Jordan in 1941 and they have a son, Stewart
Hunt, born, May 11, 1947,

Richard A. Mehler is a member of the law firm of Toomey
& Mehler, 1017 K. Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Ernest V. Echols is in general contracting, Box 193, Elk-
ton, Virginia. Home address: 330 Sherwood Avenue, Staun-
ton, Virginia.

1942

Edward M. Korry has joined the United Nations staff of
United Press after 10 months in the London bureau. He
joined UP after graduation in 1942 and was night radio bureau
manager in New York before leaving for London in June, 1946.

Robert G. Isgrigg received his Law degree from Wayne
University after leaving Washington and Lee, passed the
Michigan Bar in 1942, and is practicing law at 518 Community
National Bank Building, Pontiac, Michigan. He married
Norine MacDonald in 1945 and they have a son, Robert, Jr.,
born, February 12, 1947.

E. Austin McCaskill, now out of the service, is taking a
refresher course in Law at the University of Arkansas. Ad-
dress: 5024 Stonewall Road, Little Rock, Arkansas.

Walter G. Downie, upon separation from the AAF in 1946,
became a Rancher (sheep and cattle), at Sanderson, Texas.
He was married to Alice Houston Evans in May, 1943. Ad-
dress: P. O. Box 297, Sanderson, Texas.

Dr. John M. Atwood received his M.D. degree from Wash-
ington University School of Medicine in 1945, and is now
practicing at 16 North Monroe, Carrollton, Missouri.

Alex M. Hitz, Jr., is in the publicity and public relations
department, Liller, Neal and Battle Advertising Agency,
Walton Building, Atlanta 3, Georgia.

Edward A. Samara is president and general manager of
“Wee-Craft, Incorporated,” manufacturing children’s and in-
fant’s clothing. Address: 152 West 36th Street, New York,
New York.

Dr. Sidney Isenberg received his M.D. degree from the
University of Georgia School of Medicine in 1946, and is now
working in the Department of Neuropsychiatry in the Hospi-
tal Division of the Medical College of Virginia, Richmond,
Virginia.

Dr. Alfred L. Wolfe has had a temporary commission with
the U. S. Army Medical Corps. Home address: 187 Nehoiden
Road, Waban 68, Massachusetts. After graduation here he
received his medical degree from Boston University School
of Medicine in 1945.

Edmund Shaefer, III, is associated with the firm of Ed-
munds, Whitehead, Baldwin & Graves in the practice of law
in Lynchburg, Virginia. Address: 409 Krise Building, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

Oliver H. Ward is associated in the management of
Towers Apartments, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

C. Thomas Fuller was a visitor to the campus at Finals.
His home is Willow Brook Farm, Catasauqua, Pennsylvania.

Dr. Walter Scott Gilmer is now practicing medicine in
Richmond, Virginia. Address: 4207 Chamberlayne Avenue,
Richmond, Virginia.

Grady H. Forgy, Jr., has recently become associated with
the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, 317
Boyle Building, Little Rock, Arkansas. After receiving his

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

B.S. degree from Washington and Lee in 1942, he gradu-
ated from the Harvard Graduate School of Business in Oc-
tober, 1947.

Lieutenant (jg) Michael W. Lau, still in the Navy on the
USS Columbia, when his letter was written in August, has
recently returned from the Orient after several months spent
in China and Japan. He says the highlight of the whole trip
was the reunion with George Parton in Tokyo, at practically
the same time the rest of the class was probably having its
five year reunion in Lexington.

Robert D. Gage, III, has completed his law course at the
University of Mississippi, and has entered the practice of law
in partnership with J. T. Drake, LL.B. ’38, in Port Gibson,

Mississippi.

Robert C. Walker is Cashier of the First National Bank,
Lexington, Virginia

Colin T. Baxter is now working with Remington Rand,
Inc., the ABC Division (Adding Machines, Calculating Ma-
chines, Bookkeeping Machines). Home address: 45 Pine
Street, Huntington Station, New York.

1943

Frank N. Jarvis became Assistant to the General Mer-
chandise Manager of the Halle Brothers Company of Cleve-
land, Ohio. Home address: 2539 Kenilworth Road, Cleveland
Heights 6, Ohio.

Melvin H. Schept is a buyer with Allied Purchasing Cor-
poration, 1440 Broadway, New York, New York. He spent
3% years in the Naval Service in the States and overseas in
both the Amphibious Force and Air Force. Home address:
525-37th Street, Union City, New Jersey.

James S. Parsons is working toward an advanced degree
in Chemistry at the University of Virginia. Address: 8 Var-
sity Hall, University, Virginia.

Fred T. Miller is Sales Engineer with Adel Precision Pro-
ducts Corporation, 10777 Van Owen Street, Burbank, Cali-
fornia. He married Beverley Jeanne Fisher in 1943. Home
address: 1322 North Naomi Street, Burbank, California.

William K. Sevier is an industrial engineer with Osborn
Manufacturing Company, Henderson, Kentucky. He married
Susan Baker in 1943 and they have a son, Robert Baker, born
August 1945, and a daughter Susan Griswold, born, Febru-
ary, 1947.

Jay D. Cook, Jr., is now attending Wharton Graduate
School, University of Pennsylvania. He married Florence
Garwood in 1946 and their home address is 405 South 40th
Street, Apartment 306, Philadelphia 40, Pennsylvania.

Ralph S. Taggart is in the lumber business with Crosby
Lumber and Manufacturing Company, Crosby, Mississippi.
He married Molly Crosby in 1944 and they have a daughter,
Molly Sandra, Born, February 11, 1946.

James E. McCausland, after separation from active duty
with the Naval Reserve, is Assistant Personnel Director, The
Lane Company, Inc., Altavista, Virginia.

Frank R. Bell, Jr., returned from the service in 1946 and
joined his father in the insurance business, Patterson, Bell
and Crane Company, Box 2551, Charleston, West Virginia.
He was married to Jane Phillips, September 4, 1946.

Samuel J. Graham, Jr., is now Special Agent, Prudential
Insurance Company of America, Suite 1029 Huntington Bank
Building, 17 High Street, Columbus 15, Ohio.

K. L. Shirk is currently attending Dickinson School of
Law, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, under the G.I. Bill of Rights.

I. V. Runyan is a chemist with the development depart-
ment of ANSCO in Binghamton, New York, working on de-
veloping and processing solution for color films and related
products. Address: 67 Walnut Street, Binghamton, New York.

1944

Harrison Kinney is a graduate student at Columbia Uni-
versity, New York.

Howard Bell Peabody, Jr., is with R. F. Learned & Son,
hardwood lumber products, Natchez, Mississippi. He married
Elizabeth Barton Williams in 1946. Their home: “Magnolia
Vale,” Natchez, Mississippi.

Byron P. (Pete) Redman is with The Farmers Fertilizer
Company, Columbus 16, Ohio. He was married to Elizabeth
Ann Elwood on April 24, 1946. Home address: 2376 East
Main Street, Columbus, Ohio.

Richard Rockwell is now a student in the Yale Law
School. Residence address: 201 Fern Street, West Hartford
7, Connecticut.

1945

R. Edward Jackson is now with the night cable desk of
United Press in New York as a foreign service rewrite man.

William Lake Doyle has a new address at 259 North Wil-
lett Street, Memphis 12, Tennessee.

1946

E. Webster McLeod, Jr., is with the special service bureau
of United Press, which is headed by C. Edmunds Allen, Jr.,
BAZ Se:

T. Ryland Dodson, B.A. ’46; LL.B. 47, has recently formed
a partnership for the practice of law with Clinton A. Fowler,
under the firm name of Fowler and Dodson, with offices at
612-613 Masonic Building, Danville, Virginia.

 

Marriages

1939

Asa Rogers Sphar was married to Elizabeth Anne Cole
on February 19, 1948, in Winchester, Kentucky.

1941

Dr. William Joseph Longan and Charlotte Brown Amber-
son were married March 5, 1948. They were visitors on the
campus March 18.

1942

Whitt N. Schultz was married to Patricia Reynolds Will
on March 13, 1948, at the Country Church of the City of Gran-
ville at Lakewood, Chicago, Illinois.

1944

Clarence Eugene Ballenger, Jr., was married to Harriet
Roswell Ancrum on April 3, 1948, in Spartanburg, South
Carolina.

[ 26 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Births

1934

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Buffington are the parents of a
second son, David Todd, born February 27, 1948.

1936

Mr. and Mrs. J. Vaughan Beale are the parents of a daugh-
ter, Linda Dell, born March 14, 1948.

1938

Mr. and Mrs. William H. Hillier are the parents of a son,
David Richard, born March 17, 1948.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Guerrant Morrison are the parents of
a son, John Troth Morrison, born April 8, 1948.

1943
Mr. and Mrs. Bates W. Bryan are the parents of a son,
Bates W., Jr., born April 19, 1948.

Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Ellis, Jr., of Clarksdale, Mississippi, are

the parents of a daughter, born March 12, 1948.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. Clancy Johnson, Jr., are the parents of a
second son born April 19, 1948.

1945

Dr. and Mrs. Charles H. Stone, III, are the parents of a
son, William Hugh Stone, born March 24, 1948.

In Memoriam

1883
Rufus Choate Porter of Los Angeles, California, died Feb-
ruary 3, 1948.
1887
Sherman Wilson Hall died in Oakland, California, April
27, 1948.
1888

Frank McCord Zea died at his home in Strasburg, Vir-
ginia, April 12, 1948.

1891

Thomas Frith Pearce of Bunkie, Louisiana, died January
23, 1948.
1892
Malcolm Greame Bruce died at his home, Berry Hill Plan-
tation, South Boston, Virginia, March 30, 1948, after a long
illness.
1894
Marshall Funkhouser died April 21, 1948. His home was

in Baltimore, Maryland.
1899
William Lee Karnes died at his home in Los Angeles,
California, March 6, 1948.
1908
Luther Duke Harper of Rocky Mount, North Carolina,
died December 3, 1947.
1909
Clarence Schwabe, of St. Louis, Missouri, died March 6,
1948,
1910
John Izard of Biltmore, North Carolina, died January 19,
1948.
Harry Burin Catt of Staunton, Virginia, died at his home
April 4, 1948.
1911
George White Chaney, LL.B. °11, died April 30, 1948, at

his home in Roanoke, Virginia.

1912

Harry Lucian Saville died January 2, 1948. His home was
in Charlotte Court House, Virginia.

Hugh Bayne Satterfield died at his home in Austin, Texas,
January 12, 1948.

1916

Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., died at his home in Chicago, IIli-
nois, May 4, 1948. His two sons, Reuben A., III and Mitchell,
are now students at the University.

1923

Frank Corbett Fisher of Sutton,
March 7, 1948.

West Virginia, died

1937

Harry Simon Hiller of Brooklyn, New York, died January
5, 1948.

 

mailed to you some time ago.

 

YOUR ATTENTION, PLEASE!

This is your last opportunity to insure the accuracy of your entry in

the forthcoming Alumni Directory by returning the questionnaires

Thank you

 

 

 

