—
Tt
O)
=
Ce
©
-
a
-O
Ov
os

  

Class Agents for 1941

1940A—A. Lea Booth, Lexington, Virginia.

1940L—John Newton Harman, III, Box 71,
Virginia.

1939A—Allen T. Snyder, Lexington, Virginia.

1939L—John A. MacKenzie, 406 Middle Street, Portsmouth,
Virginia.

1938A—William H. Daniel, 53 East Flagler Street,
Florida.

1938 L—Hardwick Stuart, Cleveland, Tennessee.

1937A—R. M. Peek, Jr., 4223 South Lookout,
Arkansas.

1937L—I. M. Scott, care Lee I. Robinson Hosiery Mills, 23rd

Welch, West

Miami,

Little Rock,

Street & Allegheny Avenue, Philadelphia Penn-
sylvania.

1936A—Charles A. Sweet, Jr., 10 Vine Street, Bronxville, New
York.

1936L—C. Olin Brownell, Rooms 1-3 Mead Building, Me-
chanicsville, New York.

1935A—L. P. Gassman, Arcade Mfg. Co., Freeport, Illinois.

1935L—Tom C. Smith, Box 1693, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1934A—Fred O. Funkhouser, 532 South Main Street,
risonburg, Virginia.

1934L—Layne H. Ford, Box 534, Grafton, West Virginia.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., care Dun & Bradstreet, Citizens
Bank & Trust Co. Bldg., 201-3 W. Short Street,
Lexington, Kentucky.

1933L—William F. Stone, Martinsville, Virginia.

1932A—R. Leighton McKinney, 301'2 W. Woodward, Deni-
son, Texas.

1932L—Judge D. J. Savage, 1107 Highland Street, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1931A—Ben M. Ayars, 1714 Senate Street, Columbia, South
Carolina.

1931L—O. J. Wilkinson, Jr., 995 N. Fourth Street, Columbus,
Ohio

1930A—W. Van Gilbert, Box 213, Athens,

1930L—F. L. Shipman, Peoples Building & Savings Bank
Building, Troy, Ohio.

1929A—Junius G. Berry, 311 Main Street, Tupelo, Mississippi.

1929L—Charles L. Claunch, Chattanooga Bank Building,
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

1928A—J. W. Alderson, Jr., 208 Garland Street, Forrest City,
Arkansas.

1928L—T. B. Bryant, Jr., Orangeburg, South Carolina.

1927A—Joe Lanier, Citizens Bank & Trust Company, West
Point, Georgia.

1927 L—George D. Varney, Berwick, Maine.

1926A—

1926L—Earl Valentine, Lexington, Virginia.

1925A—Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, Haines City, Florida.

1925L—George Wilson, Jr., 414 Masonic Bldg.,
Kentucky.

1924A—Otis Howe, Wabash, Arkansas.

1924L—John M. Lovelace, American Bank & Trust Company
Building, Suffolk, Virginia.

1923A—Joseph R. Long, 506 Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri.

1923L—A. L. Mc Carthy, care Loftin, Calkins, Anderson &
Scott, Ingraham Bldg., Miami, Florida.

1922A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Williams Building,
Florida.

1922L—Joe L. Silverstein, Charleston National Bank Bldg.,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Har-

Alabama.

Owensboro,

Orlando,

1921A—Homer E. Henderson, Second National Bank, Hous.
ton, Texas.

1921L—R. C. Wood,
Virginia.

1920A—C. Howard McCain, care William Hengerer & Co.
Buffalo, New York.

1920L—Pinkney Grissom, 18th Floor Republic Bank Building o
Dallas, Texas.

1919 —William F. Barron, Rome, Georgia.

1918 —Virgil J. Trotter, Monticello, Arkansas.

1917A—J. L. Williams, 250 Stuart Street, Boston, Massachy-
setts. .

1917L—S. E. Durrance, 15 Cheney Place, Orlando, Florida,

1916A——Harrison P. Magruder, 326 N. Main Street, Wood
stock, Virginia.

1916L—F. Stanley Porter, 501 First National Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland.

1915A—Howard C. Stuck, Jonesboro, Arkansas.

1915L—K. L. Shirk, 33 Duke, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

1914A—W. J. Willkins, Federal Compress & Warehouse Co
Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

1914L—Stephen F. Chadwick, 656 Central Building, Seattle
Washington.

1913A—C. C. Moore, The Meter Parts Co., 243 N. Fifth Street,
Columbus, Ohio.

1913L—Henry B. Goodloe, 215 5th Street, N.E.,
ville, Virginia.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Virginia.

1912L—Wayne Ely, Commerce Building, St. Louis, Missouri,

1911A—James M. Barker, 605 Spruce Street, Bristol, Virginiz

1911L—William S. Engleby, Shenandoah Life Bldg., Roan
oke, Virginia.

1910A—Joseph R. Blackburn, 1714 McClung Avenue, Charles-

ton, West Virginia. ;
1910L—Hugh R. Hawthorne, One Broadway, New York City
1909A—Kester W. Denman, Lufkin, Texas.

1909 _L—Reuben Ragland, 606-12 Consolidated Building, Jack
sonville, Florida.

1908A—Horace W. Phillips, Hardeeville, South Carolina.
1908 L—George E. Penn, Kingsport, Tennessee.
1907 —Dr. Donald W. M. MacCluer, 2834 N.E.

Portland, Oregon.

Peoples National Bank, Lynchburg

  
  
  
  
   
    

Charlottes-

32nd Place,

1906 —B. J. Mayer, LaGrange National Bank Bldg., La
Grange, Georgia.

1905 —

1904 —

1903 —R. A. Ruff, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

—E. W. G. Boogher, 325 W. Maple Ave., Merchantvill
New Jersey.

1901 —John M. Corbett, Bay City, Texas.

1900 —Samuel Ruffin Horne, Fayetteville, North Carolina.

1899 —

1898 —Edward A. O’Neal, 58 E.

Illinois.
—Alumni Office.

—J. W. Lattomus, Citizens Bank Building, Wilming
ton, Delaware.

—Alumni Office.
—Alumni Office.
—B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York City.
—Wnm. C. Morton, Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1902

Washington Street, Chicage

1897
1896

1895
1894
1893
1892

 

a
Appalachian

L. P. Collins, Marion, Va.
rkansas
A James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
lanta, Georgia
ns Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland
J. Carl Fisher
Birmingham, Alabama
John F. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky
Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
Ruge DeVan
Chattanooga, Tennessee
Cc. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

Evanston, II.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina
John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio
Ben Fiery. Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia
R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley
Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia
R. P. Sanford
Detroit, Michigan
Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat'l Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
C. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky
Oldham Clark, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee
Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas
Gaylord J. Stone, Ft. Worth, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia
E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
; Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont
Frank Steele, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
. A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
George Haw
Roanoke, Virginia
Ear! Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg
Rockingham County
Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves III
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California,
Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
Joseph R. Long, 506 Olive St.
Tri-State
J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
L.. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

Brian Bell, Star Building

 

in

Dr. George W. Schnath, 734 Milburn Street,

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XVI FEBRUARY 1941 No. 3
BSN OF Ss ne io Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor... GEorGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Praeemgens. i ee Dr. R. W. Fowrxes, 1915
DOCRRRID 6565 oe Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TPOOENEEE 8 ER PGES Dr. Rem Wauire, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. CarroL_t Mean, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
Joun C. Morrison, 1925

R.G. WHITTtLe, 1924

 

 

Contents for February 1941

University and Alumni—‘A New Partnership” PAGE

(The President’s Page) ............ So) eet Ae, seca tO pa y.
The«Therty-Pitth ‘Mancy Dress. Balle iis. 20.4.- csc sched ae 3
Another Varsity Show Aids Charity..............0.ckeccecceseseteeeeees +
Training for Foreign Service............ sagt PAR: daa secs HG 5
S ceLOuapOta: ARMIN etc atelier agit Phas, ee dtecncunarcease att 7
Four Outstanding Alumini........................ sate bps’ ids abet Saks 8
Towards an Intramural Field................ Sicha eter 10
A Resume of Winter Sports........................ asSiadles aliteets, 12
3oard Adopts Athletic Recommendation. ............0.............. 13
Local Alumni Association Notes................cccccccssescesseesseeees 4
CER SE ee Aaa SOG dss sok A Loko bbs 1 Aas Piog Saoes Wav ad toa Corian 1
Contributors to Alumni Fund in 1940.00.00... eee 29

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

University and Alumni—”A New Partnership’

(THE PRESIDENT’S PAGE)

if a CuristMas letter to our alumni, hurriedly sum-
marizing developments in our recent past, I empha-
sized briefly a new relationship between the University
and the alumni. This interpretation of the status of alumni
work and alumni response has already
found acceptance in many of the far-
sighted institutions of the nation. | am
confident that the
plan by the University
Alumni Board means the beginning of a

the
the

endorsement of
Soard and
new era for us.
k x x
This “new partnership,” as it has been
defined, rests upon two basic convictions.

* K K

The first conviction is that a college
has a continuing obligation to its students,
when they are alumni as well as when they
are residents of the campus. The mere act
of graduation does not dissolve this obligation. The obli-
gation is manifold, variable. It begins with a duty of keep-
ing informed as to the careers of all alumni, includes
services of recommendations and counsel, reaches the
possibility of fortifying the cultural and spiritual life of
the alumnus by keeping him constantly identified with a
vital cultural and spiritual agency, his own Alma Mater,
The alumni secretary is the regularly authorized Univer-
sity official, responsible for the projection and the main-
tenance of these functions.

* *K K

The second conviction, and this is close indeed to the
heart of the new interpretation, is that whatever aid the
alumni may bring, they wish to bring directly to the insti-
tution itself, probably in the modes and for the ends that
engage authentically their own enthusiasms, but still di-
rectly to the strengthening of the institution itself.

ae ee

Let’s be specific about the change. When the 1941
class-agent program is launched, for example, one pur-
pose of that effort will be, as always, to gather every
possible bit of information about the alumni. The former
students will, however, be invited this year as in past
years to make such contribution of cash as may seem pos-

 

[|

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

sible for them to give. But not one penny of such con
tributions will go to the expense of this particular en
deavor or to the general expenses of the alumni office
Every penny will go to Washington and Lee. |

K ok K

But the alumnus will be invited
contribute to any one of a number of defi
nite purposes, these ends to be selected by
an Alumni Committee from a list submi
ted by the University officials. It is hope
that the items included will be sufficien
varied to engage the attention at one poit
or another of every alumnus.

K ok *

 

Let us assume—and the list for t
year has not been determined—that 0
item would be completing the Chemist
Building ; the scientifically-minded alum
might find that thought appealing. Af
other item would provide for the development of our né
intra-mural fields; alumni interested in physical traini
might respond to that suggestion. Another item might
furnishing one of the special rooms in the new libra
another might be providing for a lectureship on a pé
ticular theme, another might be sustaining the new La
Review. The list could be indefinitely extended. ©
course, every alumnus will be given the privilege of mah
ing an unrestricted contribution which will go tot
central budget, or for scholarships.
ee

I do not mean to imply that this class-agent plan
consistent and, we hope, a reasonable system for coneré
support from former students—is the only way by whic
alumni may come to the aid of their Alma Mater. One ¢
the most important methods of assistance is the matter ¢
interesting the right kind of boy in Washington and Lé
That this method is now yielding notable results 1s
tested by the fact, which I have previously mentione
that nearly one-fourth of our present freshman cle
were influenced to come to Washington and Lee by alu
—not counting immediate members of these boys’ famili€

* * x .

At the risk of tiresome repetition, I wish to give ef
phasis to this point. Your Alma Mater seems to ha
(Continued on page 0)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Thirty-Fitth Fancy Dress Ball

~ oUR rather elderly way, we are still distressed by the

Bought of a time when the energetic young men who
annually pr‘ luce the Washington and Lee Fancy Dress
Ball may run out of ideas for a historical Theme. After
all, recorded history covers a period of only three thou-
sand years or so, and
most of it has already
heen used pretty thor-
oughly in our past
thirty-five dance - sets.
Imagine the situation
if we were some time
reduced to a Cave
Man Ball! Who would
go as the icthyosaurus,
and what might some
of the costumes be ?

Anyhow we submit
that the signs of this
approaching catastro-
phe might be tound
this year when definite
historical events were
abandoned in favor of
the timeless New Or-
leans Mardi Gras.

sut time or no time, you may be sure that our Mystic
Krewe of Mirth this year was outdoing New Orleans not
to mention all previous Fancy Dress efforts, in a dance
that will go down in history. (‘There is a thought—a Fancy
Dress Ball based on the historical theme of a Fancy Dress
Ball—and we will sell it.to the committee for a nominal
consideration ! )

One thing we can say about the “Rex” Ball (for that
Was technically the title of this year’s dance) is that it

added to student education—and after all, what else is a

 

college for? For example, we discover from the material
disseminated by the young man in charge of publicity,
that the word “carnival” is of Latin origin and means lit-
erally, “farewell to meat,” hence giving the true reason for
Mardi Gras which is a final spree before the fast of Lent.
Mardi Gras” itself means “fat Tuesday” and is the day
before the long, lean weeks that follow Ash Wednesday.

Furthermore, our youthful expert points out, the
“ginal New Orleans Mardi Gras burst out rather spon-
taneously

in 1827 when some young men who had studied
In Fy -

ance simply couldn’t restrain their pre-Lenten joy.

 

Other things we learned were that the real Mardi Gras
lasts from after Christmas until Ash Wednesday, the Rex
sall being only the climax of a long series of celebrations ;
that the first parades were held in Mobile in 1831; that
the so-called Mystic Krewes date from 1857, and that
King Rex himself—
Lord of Misrule—
was created for the en-
tertainment of the
Grand Duke Alexis
Romanoff Alexandro-
vitch when he visited
New Orleans in 1872
and heard played espe-
cially for him, the
song “If Ever I Cease
to Love,” which is still
the theme of Mardi
Gras and was of the
1941 Fancy Dress Ball.

In true Washington
and Lee style, all these
details and many more
were incorporated per-
fectly into the proce-
dure of the big mid-
winter dance. The only two missing features, it would ap-
pear, were New Orleans itself, which refused to be
moved ; and a change in the calendar which likewise stuck
to January 31. For the first, however, was substituted in-
genious decoration, and for the second, an authentic spirit
of joy which attends the Mardi Gras season and that is
more essential than the date.

As to the decorations, the gym was turned into a typi-
cal New Orleans ballroom, chiefly decorated in green, yel-
low and purple, traditional for Mardi Gras; but special-
izing in loud colors throughout. The south end of the hall
was covered by a huge, laughing mask whose mouth was
big enough to make an entrance door for the members of
the figure. The end of the gymnasium where the coaches’
offices are, was made to represent a scene from the Old
French quarter of New Orleans, complete with patios
and wrought-iron balconies.

To make the costuming harmonize with the scene, the
student body was divided into four ‘“Krewes’’ and cos-
tumed accordingly. Krewes are secret societies organized
for the purpose of adding to the gaiety of Mardi Gras;

[3 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and the four Krewes chosen for this occasion were: the
Mystic Krewe of Mirth, consisting of harlequins, jesters,
Pierrots, etc.; the Mystic Krewe of Osiris, appearing as
Orientals; the Mystic Krewe of Romany (gypsies) ; and
the Mystic Krewe of the Merry Monarchs, representing
such characters as Charles II, Louis XIV, Henry VIII
and Lorenzo the Magnificent.

The officers, led by the President of Fancy Dress as
King Rex, Lord of Misrule, for whom a throne was pro-
vided, were dressed as Henry VIII with Catherine of
Aragon; Louis XIV and Madame Du Barry; Antony
and Cleopatra; Falstaff and friend; Ali Baba and Sche-
herazade, (poor Scheherazade accompanied by a creature
of her imagination!) ; the Vagabond King and Queen ; old
King Cole and Queen (the latter being heard of, we sus-
pect, for the first time at this gathering) ; and the King
and Queen of Gypsies. The aces seem to have been with-
drawn from the pack, and jacks were good for openers.

So much for the visual element. As to the sound-
effects, you heard them, or if you did not, you missed a
splendid broadcast, particularly featuring one of Dr.
Gaines’ excellent speeches made directly to you. The
music, as is well known, was played by the incomparable

Another Varsity Show Aids Charity

O* FEATURE of a small college in a small town which
we have always noticed and are sure you have too 1s
as avid for gossip as any small

 

that the student body
community—does most of its gossiping about the faculty
and enjoys ridiculing that supposedly august body on all
occasions. The Sigma
Litany, which was a
manifestation of this
tendency, had to be
squelched a few years
ago when its ribaldry
went out of bounds,
but the

sure to break out again

custom was
in some form or other:

and the new form
seems to be the now-

Faculty Fol-

annual
lies” in which the pro-
fessors take part in a
beauty contest, to the
delight of all, except,
for the contestants.

 

The Varsity Show Recruits in Training

[+]

   
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

Benny Goodman, with his old clarinet and his new bang
Goodman also performed at the ODK formal Saturdg
night, while the Junior Prom Thursday evening was en
tertained by Maestro Charlie Barnet. Miss Helen Forres
sang for the company, and dancers from the Floyd Wa
School of Dancing in Lynchburg presented two dance
one in which a Nubian slave, a messenger from Illyrig
presented three gifts to King Rex and the Lady of Mis
rule (Queen Regina perhaps); the other a “Coq dC
number.

It seems significant that two big broadcasting con
panies were vieing this year for the privilege of broa¢
casting Fancy Dress. The way in which this event
grown from: Miss Annie White’s inspiration in 1907 to
social event of national importance in 1941 1s a credit
the college, and especially to all of those thirty-five class
of alumni who have helped to make it what it 1s. |

It was a great week-end as always. If the participan
ever get over it, they will go back to school, which
opened officially on February 3; but, we suspect, wor
get going until a week before exams in May. After
will come Finals. And we hope all of you who mi

‘ancy Dress, and all of you who didn’t, will be there.

The show, “One for the Money,” was not unlike
year’s “W & L, ‘Zapoppin’” in that all musical and df
matic talent in school was employed to its fullest.
‘Southern Collegians” orchestra and the Glee Club boi
performed ; there were feminine singers and dancers fre
Southern Sem; the
were athletes dress
up as Red Cro
Nurses; there was
skit in which a Was
ington and Lee stude
became a draftee at
army camp where
was trained Db
V.M.I. man; and
course there was t
poor old faculty, pel
girlish for the bene
of charity. The she
poured $100 cash if
the pockets of the B
Cross and the Mot
gram Club,

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Training for Foreign Service

ASHINGTON AND LEE alumni overseas, particularly
W ix men of an older generation, may perhaps envy
the educational experience of the undergraduates of to-
day who are training for foreign service. In the class-
room and on the campus (especially before tests and
examinations) one finds young students discussing the
significance and complexities of consular invoices, bills
of exchange, ocean freight rates, neutrality laws, the
rights of American citizens abroad, Oriental-American
diplomatic relations, British democracy, Latin ‘American
problems and policies, foreign banking systems, inter-
national organizations and agencies, ports and terminal
facilities, world politics and diplomacy. To the uninitiated
ear, such topics of conversation may sound like the pro-
verbial jargon of Babylon, but to the modern under-
graduate it is serious business, a part of a well integrated
course of study that is training him for his life’s work in
foreign trade or government service overseas.

About ten years ago the need of definite training for
students interested in a foreign career was recognized and
studied by two faculty members—Professor John Higgins
Williams, who had had two years of experience in the
Department of State and who had been American Vice
Consul in Ceylon in 1924-27, and Professor M. Ogden
Phillips, who had worked in the Export Department of
the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company in 1924-25 and
who later served as Economic Adviser to the United
States Maritime Commission. As a result of their study
and recommendations, basic courses in economics, com-
merce, political science, history, and modern languages
were combined into a group of studies known as the “For-
eign Service Group,’ which was inaugurated by the
School of Commerce and Administration in 1933.

Without any attempt to describe curricular require-
ments in detail, it may be noted that students who elect
the Foreign Service course of studies enroll in the School
of Commerce as sophomores but do not begin to specialize
until their junior year. All students must take a third year
of foreign language, and the better ones are permitted to
€nroll in conversational Spanish, French, or German.

Of special interest to the young man who hopes to
“nter exporting, importing, ocean shipping, branch bank-
ig, Or some other line of foreign business are such
‘ourses as Money and Banking, World Resources and
Industries, Ocean Trade and ‘Transportation, Foreign
rade Theory and Practice, Banking Problems, Invest-

15

J

ments, Public Utilities, and Economic Geography of
North America and of South America. For the student
who aspires to a career in government service abroad
are courses in American Diplomatic History, Interna-
tional Relations, International Law, Governments of
Kurope, European History 1814-1914, and World War
and Reconstruction. Next year new courses dealing with
Latin American history and government may be offered.
Thus, while time marches on, the University keeps pace
with curricular changes designed to meet the needs of
her sons who go forth into a rapidly changing world.

Today there are many Washington and Lee alumni
who have achieved distinguished success in the broad
fields of diplomacy and world trade. Some have been
unable to return to the campus in years. To the alumni
scattered along the world’s far-flung diplomatic and com-
mercial frontiers, we send greetings :

Henry Edward Allen, B.S. in Com., ’34, Division of Commer-
cial Treaties and Agreements, Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

Carl Arenz, B.S. in Com., ’37, Socony Vacuum Oil Company,
Manila, Philippine Islands.

Charles Maurice Barnes, '04, Chief of Division of Commercial
Treaties and Agreements, Department of State, Washing-
ton, D. C.

James McKimm Bell, 10, Sao Paulo Tramway Light & Power
Company, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Benjamin James Broach, ’22, American Foreign Insurance As-
sociation, Cairo, Egypt.

Parker Wilson Buhrman, L[..B., 16, American Consul Gen-
eral, Basel, Switzerland.

James King Butler, B.A., ’37, Pan American-Grace Airways,
Lima, Peru.

Harold Moorman Collins, B.A., ’14, American Consul, Tam-
pico, Mexico.

Samuel Sterman Dickson, ‘19, American Consulate, Van-
couver, British Columbia, Canada.

Vincent Babcock Earley, B.S. in Com., ’38, Socony Vacuum
Oil Company, Bombay, India.

Richard Wirt Flournoy, '98, Assistant to Legal Adviser, De-
partment of State, Washington, D. C.

Edgar Davis Flynn, Jr., B.S. in Com., ’37, E. D. Flynn Export
Company, Mobile, Alabama.

George Lee Hill, B.S. in Com., ’26, National City Bank of
New York, Manila, Philippine Islands.

A. Dana Hodgdon, B.A., ‘11, American Consul, Berlin, Ger-
many.

Merton Thomas Howard, B.S. in Com., ’39, Wesen-Duval
Company, Import Merchants, New York City.

Samuel Maui Hussey, ’20, Hawaiian Pineapple Company, Ltd.,
Lahaina Maui, Hawaii.

Samuel Tipton Jones, B.S. in Com., ’39, Purchasing Depart-
ment, U. S$. Government, Panama Canal Zone.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John Frederick Ladd, B.S. in Com., 32, Waterman Steamship
Lines, Mobile, Alabama.

Claude Andrews Lavarre, B.A., ’33, M.A., ’34, Singer Sewing
Maching Company, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba.

Richard Leon Lile, ’20, General Superintendent, Demonstra-
tion Gold Mines, Ltd., Bazio, Philippine Islands.

Martin Philo Lindsey, B.S. in Com., ’30, Lindsey Lumber Ex-
port Company, Mobile, Alabama.

Frank Lee McCoy, Jr., B.A., 14, Guarantee Trust Company,
Paris, France.

William Rogers Marchman, B.A., '26, National City Bank of
New York, Shanghai, China.

Frank Taylor Mitchell, B.A., ’25, National City Bank of New
York, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
James Constantine Paera, B.S. in Com., °39, Moore-McCor-
mack Steamship Lines, New York and Buenos Aires.
Theodore McFadden Plowden, B.A., 37, United States Rubber
Export Company, Ltd., New York City.

Montgomery Lewis Ridenour, B.S. in Com., '26, Yee Tsoong
Tobacco Company, Ltd., Shanghai, China.

Herbert Clifford Sigvartsen, B.A., B.S. in Com., 39, United
Fruit Company, Cristobal, Canal Zone, Panama.

Norman Cutler Smith, B.A., ’37, Standard Oil Company of
Venezuela, Caripito, Venezuela.

Thomas Carman Smith, B.S. in Com., °33, The W. Harry
Smith Steamship Agencies, Havana, Cuba.

William Joel Turner, B.A., 03, General Manager, Braden
Copper Company, Rancagua, Chile.

William White Smith, B.A., ‘13, Westminster Tobacco Com-
pany, Ltd., Capetown, Union of South Africa.
James Somerville, Jr., B.A., °12, M.A., 714, Assistant Commer-
cial Attache, American Embassy, London, England.
Philip Dodson Sprouse, B.A., ‘28, American Vice Consul,
Hankow, China.

Francis Holmes Styles, B.A., 18, American Consul, Dublin,
Ireland.

Charles Heistand Taliaferro, 31, American Vice Consul, Yar-
mouth, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Joseph Prisby Thornton, ‘13, Standard Vacuum Oil Company,
Hongkong, China.

Donald Davis Vandling, B.S. in Com., ’38, United States Steel
Products Company, New York City.

Joseph Kittredge Vinson, B.A., °32, American Vice Consul,
Berlin, Germany.

William Clark Watson, B.A., ’29, Standard Vacuum Oil Com-
pany, Swatow, China.

Wallace Palmer Willson, '12, Pacific Mail Steamship Com-
pany, Shanghai, China.

William Lovell Yerkes, '29, air-conditioning engineer, Johan-
nesburg, Union of South Africa.

William Cameron Young, B.A., ‘01, American Consul, Paris,
France.

Note: The above list does not include doctors, lawyers,
teachers, army and naval officers, and missionaries overseas.

 

About the Covers

The three pictures that adorn the front and
back covers of this issue show the two splendid
reading rooms that are in the recently-rebuilt
dormitories. The photographs were taken by Tom
Fleming, 1941.

 

 

 

[6 |

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

The President's Page
(Continued from page 2)

reached the point at which it does not have to worry abo
the number of applicants. But it is just as deeply cor
cerned as it ever was, I can assure you, as to the qualit
of applicants. This is the factor that, certainly as much g
any other one thing, will determine what kind of a schog
we shall have as the years pass. Alumni can be doub
helpful in suggesting this institution to the proper bo
and then in helping the institution evaluate the boys w
do apply. * Ok Ox

As a stimulus to this end, the Trustees renewed 2
enlarged the time-honored alumni scholarships. They ¢
now valued at $250 a year, payable as remission of
ition; and they are awarded by the University to son
boy who satisfies our general scholarship requiremer
and has the recommendation of a regular committee
some chapter as to need, character, and promise of sche
astic success. Twenty-five of these scholarships may be
force at any one time, and they are renewable, subject
good performance, for each of the four undergradua
years. x -*« *

The University budget, and not any basis of endo
ment, bears the expense represented in the Alumni Sche
arships. We should be delighted, of course, if any ¢
ters, or any individual alumni, should establish additior
scholarships, available for this proper type of student.

em

Reading this article over, I fear that I have writter
largely from the point of what the alumnus can do for ft
Alma Mater and have paid scant attention to what t
Alma Mater can do for the alumnus. Well, that side
the relationship is a long story, perhaps another stot
certainly a valid story. At the present time, to cite 0
small example, hardly a day passes that we do not aid
preparing credentials for young alumni who wish tof
late themselves in one way or another to the program
national defense. But that story will be attempted late

*x* * *

It is enough to say here that important as is alu
support to any institution, and particularly to our ims
tution, this “new partnership” has not been establish
by the two Boards with any selfish thought dominant. It
a sincere and we believe a promising effort to strength
or even to re-create a close intellectual and spiritual f
lowship between the University and her sons. The Ur
versity fervently desires such relationship ; and we have
serene confidence that her sons will be happier beca
of it.

Francis P. Gainss, President

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Campus Comment

By KENNETH VAN DE WATER

NEW YEAR, a new issue of the “Alumni Magazine,”
A and a new batch of items of what’s new among the
students in Lexington.

Fancy Dress is over, but it will always remain a vivid
and pleasurable memory to those who attended. From the
student's standpoint,
“it was great’ and the
transforming of Wash-
ington and Lee into
Mardi Gras town was
colorfully quaint.

“One for the
Money,” the 1940 ver-
sion of the varsity
show, went over in a
big way, and the local
Red Cross and the
Monogram Club were
both the recipient of a
$100 check.

The bearded play-
boys of the House of
David basketball team
visited Doremus Gym-
nasium a while back, but the Generals’ basketeers were
not fooled by the abundance of hair, and trounced them
soundly by a score of 51 to 36.

Dick Wright, Ring-tum Phi sports columnist and cre-
ator of the loudest protests in regard to the athletic dis-
cussion, was amazed when he received a letter from
Blacksburg making him a “tentative offer” of a five-year
contract as head football coach at VPI at $9,000 a year.
No one will claim the authorship of the letter, but it was
Written upon stationery of the Tech Department of Physi-
cal Education and the typed signature was, “The Virginia
Tech Athletic Association.”

The efforts of TKI to secure an “iron lung” for the
Lexington hospital have become a reality. The order has
been placed, and the machine has arrived. ‘The campus
takes its hat off to the biological society for an enthusiastic
Project well executed.

A student body poll was taken to see if a majority of
the men in school would favor the abolition of corsages
‘or dates at all dances of the university. Not enough stu-
dents wanted to abolish the custom, but 70 per cent de-

|

 

The Morning Mail

N

sired a change. What happened? A cut-rate price war off-
set the anti-corsage petitions.

To spice the Fancy Dress issue of the ‘Southern Col-
legian,”” a special set of female writings was included.
Dedicated “to the ladies,” the section contained articles

and verses written by

girls of neighboring
schools,

“Set ‘em up in the

other alley” has_ be-
come the cry of the
faculty recently, but
in regard to bowling
thank

goodness. The faculty

over students,
bowling team is creat-
ing quite a name for
itself, and holds the
record for local clubs.
C. Harold Lauck set a
team record when he
rolled 151. Other mem-
bers of the team are
Larry Watkin, Foster
Mohrhardt, Larkin Farinholt, Raymon Johnson, Cookie
Cunningham and Cy Young.

Results of the placement bureau questionnaire spon-
sored by the Commerce Club show that three-fourths of
the junior and senior classes have no positions which
they are sure of entering following graduation. More than
fifty per cent favored the establishment of a placement
bureau, and as a result, the faculty is now considering
such a proposition.

The installation of 105 parking meters has been be-
gun by the town of Lexington and so we find that we
have used up our time and will move on until next issue
when we make another stop.

 

JAMES A. BLALock, 1937, former star debater for
Washington and Lee, is practicing law in Jackson, Mis-
sissippi, and is having his article entitled “Appeal and
I¥rror—Decisions by the Mississippi Supreme Court dur-
ing 1939-1940” published in the current issue of the
Mississippi Law Journal.

ward Asbury O’Neal, 1898

 

Abram P. Staples, 1908

Norfleet Turner, 1924 Lewis Powell,

Four Outstanding Alumni

Wee possible, the ALUMNI MAGAZINE likes to
print biographical sketches of graduates whose pres-
ent activities and past record ought to be of interest to all.
Consequently we ought to print a sketch of each of the
notable nine thousand because certainly there is no Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus who is not doing something all of
us would like to know about. Needless to say, however,
such a project would involve a slight problem of space.
Therefore, for the moment, we content ourselves by
proudly presenting four.

Lewis Powell

Amonc the younger graduates of the Law School
who have been making a mark for themselves is Lewis
Powell, 1929, (L1..B. 1931) who is a member of the
Richmond law firm of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay
& Moore, and National Chairman of the Junior Bar
Conference of the American Bar Association.

Not long ago Mr. Powell was not only President of
the Student
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma. His fraternity

sody, but he was a member of Phi Beta
was Phi Kappa Sigma; he was manager of the football
team, and as a final reward for merit, he received the
Algernon Sidney Sullivan Medallion.

He took the degree of LL.M. at the Harvard Law
School in 1931 and proceeded to Richmond where he
joined his present firm. He soon showed his legal scholar-
ship by publishing an article in the University of Virginia
Law Review.

[or three years Mr. Powell was a member of the
Kxecutive Council of the Junior Bar Association, the

only national organization of younger lawyers, and he
represented the group in various southern states. He was
elected the Association’s president at their Philadelphia
meeting in 1940.

Other young alumni—particularly Graham Morison,
32, Ross Malone, 32, Amos Bolen, °37, and Sherwood
Wise, ’34, are also active in the Junior Bar Association:

Mr. Powell is a member of the Board of Directors of
the Family Service Society of Richmond and chairman of
its Legal Aid Committee, which is giving an outstanding
community service in his home city.

He was married in 1936 and has two girls, one almos
three and the other almost one.

Norfleet Turner

[x 1933—a most unenviable year for the type of busi
ness—Norfleet Turner, 1924, was elected Vice-President
of a bank.

Most of us (do you realize that it was nine years
ago?) would at that time as soon have been elected t
something more like a few years of hard labor, but Mf
Turner took his new job and made such a success of it
that in 1937 he was made Executive Vice-President @
his bank, the First National of Memphis. He still hold§
that position today. |

Mr. Turner, a member of Kappa Sigma, left Wash
ington and Lee in 1923 and soon became associated wi
his present bank, becoming Manager of its affiliate, The
First Securities Corporation, in May, 1929. As can 0&
seen from the record above, he has been making a lot OF
headway in the banking business ever since.

[8 |

,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

——

Not content with helping to put the Memphis banking
husiness back on its feet, Mr. Turner has found time for
numerous Civic activities. He has been on the Board of
Pirectors of the Community Fund, of the Chamber of
Commerce, of the Shelby County Tuberculosis Society,
and of the Mémphis Junior Camp. He is Treasurer of the
Memphis Chapter of the American Red Cross and a past
president of the Memphis Clearing House Association.
He is a member of the Rotary Club, the Memphis
Country Club, the American Bankers Association, and
the Reserve City Bankers Association. He is at present
serving on the latter’s Board of Directors.

Mr. Turner mentions the “problems that go with the
rearing of two youngsters” along with the “ ‘headaches’
connected with the banking business in recent years,” but
since he and Mrs. (Elinor Ragland) Turner are the
happy parents of a boy born twelve years ago and a girl
two years his junior, we cannot drum up much sympathy
—evyen for the banking business nowadays—mnaybe !

Abram P. Staples

In 1908, a student who had been a member of Phi
Kappa Sigma, Sigma, president of Graham-Lee, and
Secretary of his senior class, left Lexington with an
LL.B in his pocket. Today he is—as he has been since
1934—Attorney General of the State of Virginia.

Abram P. Staples—the former student in question—

 

was born in Martinsville, Virginia, in 1885; and, after an
education in the Roanoke schools and at Washington and
Lee, he entered the practice of law in Roanoke. From
the commencement of his practice he was recognized as
one of the outstanding lawyers in that section of the
state. In 1923 he was made president of the Roanoke
Bar Association and was endorsed by this and other asso-
ciations to fill a vacancy in the Supreme Court of Virginia.

In 1928 he was elected by the people of Roanoke to
represent them in the State Senate where he served for
four sessions. He has been
appointment to that office by
in 1934.

A few words from an editorial in the Richmond
Times-Dispatch of October 20, 1940, will give a good
idea of Mr. Staples’ achievement since he has been in
his present office :

Attorney General since his
Governor George C. Peery

“Virginia’s Attorney-General, Abram P. Staples, has
an unbroken record of victories in both the State and the
United States Supreme Court. The record is impressive,
and worth review, because civil cases are not brought to
the highest federal and state courts unless the appellants
“re convinced they have a powerful argument and are
“presented by lawyers of recognized ability .. ,

“The attorney-general’s record in the United States
Supreme Court is remarkable. Thus far he has not lost a
single case in Washington, although he has been opposed
by some of the keenest lawyers in the land... .”

Besides being Attorney-General at the present time,
Mr. Staples is Director of the Interstate Commission on
Crime, member of the National Conference on State De-
fense, of the Joint Conference Committee of the Federal
State Conference on Law Enforcement Problems of Na-
tional Defense, and Vice-President of the Association of
Attorneys General.

Edward Asbury O'Neal

KDWARD AsBuRY O'NEAL, who received his A.B. in
1898, is today president of the American Farm Bureau
Federation and an authority on American farm problems.

This young Phi Kappa Psi, who had played two years
of football, rowed on the Harry Lee Boat Crew, been
president of the Final Ball in 1895 and studied a year of
law, returned, in 1898, to his native Florence, Alabama,
and began the work of operating what is now a 1900-acre
farm on the Tennessee River, two miles from Muscle
Shoals.

The soil of this plantation, which came down to him
from a line of distinguished ancestors, was all but worn
out as a result of the War and Reconstruction, and he
realized that for successful cotton farming he would have
to improve it. Following, therefore, the program recom-
mended by the agricultural college at Auburn, he made
cotton grow and developed legumes, livestock, and grain.

He soon saw the need for the new program beyond
the confines of his own fields and threw himself into the
work of organizing other farmers with such effect that
in 1927 he was presented by the Agricultural College with
one of his most prized possessions, a gold medal with the
inscription, “For Distinguished Service in Farm Leader-
ship.”

More and more of his time went into farm organiza-
tion until he had to give up personal operation of his own
farm. He was successively elected to offices in the state
and National ederation and at last, in 1931, he attained
his present position as national president.

President Harding appointed Mr. O’ Neal to serve on
a national agricultural conference; President Hoover
placed him on the Muscle Shoals Commission ; President
Roosevelt appointed him to the allotment division set up
under the Works Relief Bill. He was called to help in the
framing of the McNary-Haugen bill, the Agricultural
Adjustment Act, the Soil Conservation Act, the
Credit Act, the present monetary program, and the mar-

(Continued on page 18)

‘arm

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Site of proposed intramural field—we hope

Towards an Intramural Field

By GEorGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

A I writE this, I cannot help remembering the ac-
counts my father used to give me of undergraduate
athletics when he was at college in the class of 1883, Out-
side of intercollegiate baseball and various interclass
games, the main emphasis was upon the wielding of
dumb-bells and Indian clubs, compulsory for all members
of the school. The room used for these exercises was en-
cumbered by a good many iron pillars, and the principal
aim of all members of the class was to get behind a pillar
so that their loafing could not be seen.

Since that time, fifty-seven years ago, college sports
have undergone an expansion into a million-dollar enter-
prise, which, in some places, emphasizes the entertain-
ment of sports-fans more than it does the physical well-
being of undergraduates. This process has been praised
and condemned many times.

Meanwhile, the desire of American youth to engage
in athletic competition had not lessened. The boy who
wants to play football but is not big enough, can play
touch-football. The boy who would like to be on the var-
sity baseball team but can’t hit for .300 can always play
softball. The young man trained well in no particular
sport can try soccer, for instance; and if his legs and his
wind are sound, he has a chance to improve his health
and his fraternity standing in that or some other minor
sport. If his inclinations or abilities are not in the direc-
tion of team-play, he has a chance at tennis or golf, hand-

ball or volleyball for a physical outlet. And he can sti
indulge in sports like these after he is an alumnus, put
ting on too much weight, and worrying about what
happen down at the office tomorrow morning.

Intramural programs, important in most colleges te
day, are founded on such considerations as those abo
Directors of athletic programs, trained as they are
physical education, know that all of us get our health, ne
through compulsory exercise when we hide behind a pi
lar, or when we force ourselves to take an unwilling walk
or when we make a theatrical appearance on the field ¢
glory—but rather when, for the pure joy of combat,
engage in competition with those we love but want t
beat. Such is the origin—such is the moving force in
intramural program at Washington and Lee today. |

When I was in college myself, I witnessed a grea
many stirring intercollegiate contests; yet the only gé
that stands out in my memory today is the freshmat
sophomore football game played my freshman year. Jus
how those sophomores cheated us, I never have know!
but I know that our team was better and that the sophe
mores won merely by kicking a field goal in the midst of
driving rainstorm. No honest team could possibly hav
done that!

In any case, the stands cheer; the photographers
lights flash; the big dance is held. But the real sport?
going on on the touch-football fields, the softball ground

[| 10 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

and the lacrosse layout. And it is going on in the gym-
nasium where opponents bat each other around the hand-
hall courts or drown each other at water-polo. These are
our “playing fields of Eton.”

In short, departments of physical education have
pretty well given up the antiquated theory that every boy
must exercise whether he likes it or not—because they
all like it!

At the present time, your college is not as well off as it
should be for space to play intramural games. Mr. Gavin
Hadden of New York, the engineer who studied our
needs last spring, put it this way: An average of nine-
teen different institutions scattered all over the country,
and with an average enrollment of 620 students, had an
average of 9.3 major units (“units” meaning the ‘‘sum-
mation of the number of the separate fields suitable for
minor sports.” ) “On this same basis, the number of
major units at Washington and Lee today is only three.”
Noting that the average enrollment of the other schools
mentioned was 620 to our approximately 920, you can
easily see how our intramural program is cramped.

About a year ago, as noted in the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
for last May, the college bought the White farm with
sufficient acreage to build intramural fields for many
colleges, and the plan is still to add to our present athletic
facilities in that direction.

Here is approximately what the Physical Education
department would like to have:

(1) At least three and preferably five touch-football
felds which could be used for softball diamonds in the
spring and would serve, if needed, for soccer or lacrosse
as well.

(2) ‘Ten or more tennis courts.

(3) An area for instruction in golf which could be
furnished inexpensively in the form of driving ranges
and a putting course.

Without these facilities, the university is going to be
forever doing less for health nod recreation than it should.
To quote the engineer again, “That your department of
physical education has been able . . . to carry on any team
program at all... is to me scerupritednn: ’ Yet, in spite
of the congestion in the regular playing fields where var-
sity practice interfered with intramurals and freshmen,
oF vice versa ; and where the three hundred who wanted to
play tennis were prevented by tournaments or by the var-
sity team; where intramural schedules were carried out
on the high school field or on back lots—where the newly
formed and highly successful lacrosse team had no place
'o play at all—in the face of all this, the intramural pro-
stam has been amazingly successful.

It has been functioning in organized form for about
ten years under the | ‘adership of Forest Fletcher and his

assistants, Cy Twombly and Archie Mathis. Each of
these years has shown an increase in the number of those
participating until now there are seven hundred boys eager
to engage in the various kinds of sport, not for credit, not
for personal glory, but for the love of the game.

At the present time, without a good place to play,
nineteen teams participate in football, baseball, softball,
ping pong, basketball, handball, tennis, golf, wrestling,
swimming, volleyball, track, and horseshoes. They do this
with such enthusiasm that some fraternities have even
inaugurated a training table and imposed a fifty-cent fine
for non-attendance at contests. The program has made for
good spirit, and good health. And finally, in the words of
one of the directors, “it never cost anybody a cent.”

Plans have been made so that at any time work can
begin, and the costs should not be large. The university,
of course, cannot undertake such a project with its pres-
ent resources, but it is hoping for the day when new gen-
erosity will bring this new improvement. It should make
a pretty view, by the way, from the campus or from the
football stands, of green playing fields stretching out to-
wards the Alleghenies.

 

JosEpH E. Birnie, 1925, for the past two years Exec-
utive Vice-President of the Morris Plan Bank of Atlanta,
was elected President of the bank on January 18. He was
elected Vice-President of the bank in August, 1938, and
six months later was made Executive Vice-President. He
had been an officer of the Morris Plan Bank of Virginia
at Richmond and later Executive Secretary and Treasurer
of the Morris Plan Bankers National Association. He is
a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, Country Club of Virginia at Richmond, Piedmont
Driving Club, and the Society of the Cincinnati.

 

PROFESSOR OLLINGER CRENSHAW, 1925, recently had
his article on “George Bickley and the Knights of the
Golden Circle,” accepted by the American Historical Re-
view, the leading scholarly journal of history. The article
deals with the activities of the Knights, whose organiza-
tion was founded in the South on the eve of the Civil War
with the objective of seizing Mexico in the interest of
spreading slavery. Bickley was the organization’s founder,

 

Junius PowE vt, 1917, who has been in the bond busi-
ness with several concerns since his overseas service dur-
ing the World War, and who was one of the founders
of the Raleigh office of the Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust
Company, has returned to Raleigh this year with J. S.
Bache & Company.

[ 11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Resumé of Winter Sports

Basketbal Washington and Lee’s potent bas-

Tee Gan Siraice ketball team, digging in for tough

: second semester opposition, was 1n
a challenging position for both state and conference lau-
rals as examinations ended January 30.

Defeated only once by Big Six or Southern Confer-
ence teams, the Generals stand almost assured of a bid to
the conference tournament in Raleigh February 27-28
and March 1, but need to sweep their remaining state
games to defend their Big Six crown.

Three victories and a loss mark W. and L.’s state
record, with four victories and one loss against confer-
ence foes. The season record stands at six and six, with
an unproductive invasion of the Middle West during
Christmas accounting for three defeats.

Washington and Lee opened with a 46 to 15 triumph
over Lynchburg college. Powerful George Washington
clipped the Big Blue, 40 to 34, in its next stand. The
vacation trip followed, with the Generals dropping de-
cisions to Western Kentucky Teachers, 26 to 22, Morris
Harvey, 33 to 32, and Evansville (Indiana) Teachers, 41
to 38.

Captain Howard Dobbins, suffering a bad knee, saw
little action before Christmas. Dick Pinck, Bobby Gary,
and a brace of sophomores, Leo Signiago and Jeff Hud-
son, carried the offensive. Lugger Ligon, another soph,
displayed some neat work at guard, with George Gass-
man furnishing relief work at forward.

Coming back after the holidays with Dobbins back 1n
the line-up, the Generals defeated the House of David,
51 to 36, and dropped a thrilling 43 to 39 decision to
North Carolina in their first conference start.

Following this, W. and L. racked up three consecu-
tive conference victories, defeating William and Mary,
35 to 29, Maryland, 59 to 41, and Virginia Tech, 41 to 29.

The Generals suffered their first state setback when
Virginia won a 37 to 28 victory before a record crowd in
Doremus gym. Pinck and Gassman were in the hospital
with influenza, seriously crippling the W. & L. offensive.

A 37 to 30 triumph over V. P. I. during exams re-
vived the Generals stock in the state race, as V. M. I.
upset Virginia the same evening.

Tough return games with William and Mary and
Virginia stand as threats to the General’s state champion-
ship hopes. Two matches with the University of Rich-
mond also remain on the state card,

[ 12]

  
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  

Washington and Lee’s wrestling
program got off to a good sta
before the exam layoff, with the
varsity taking their first two matches from the Apprenti
School and West Virginia, and the freshmen bowing te
Woodberry Forest.

Captain Fuller led the grapplers to their opening vie.
tory on January 11 over the Newport News Apprentice
school by a score of 26-10, and the following week they
repeated the performance at the expense of the Wes
Virginia Mountaineers, 26-8. Both were home meets.

The Generals lost only the 165 and 175-poun¢
matches in the opener. Winners for W. and L. were
Graham, 121; Lambert, 128; Robb, 136; Captain Fuller
145: Lanier, 155, and Ailor, unlimited. House, 165, ane
Hanasik, 175, both of W. and L. lost by falls.

In the West Virginia meet, which was the Generals
15th straight dual meet victory, the home team used th
same line-up with the single exception of the 175-pou
class, in which Schellenberg replaced Hanasik. Onl
Ailor and Lambert bowed for W. and L. The rest ca
through victorious, and Fuller won his second head

Wrestling

By BAYARD BERGHAUS

scissors fall.

The freshmen, in their meet January 17 with Wood
berry Forest at Woodberry, took only one bout. BE
Waddington, in the unlimited class, saved the Brigadier
from a whitewashing by decisioning his opponent. Th
final score favored Woodberry, 27-3. 7

Rifle Club

By LATHAM THIGPEN

As a definite step toward natio
preparedness the Washington ¢
Lee rifle club plans to give eac
member a certificate at the end of the current seas¢
showing his degree of proficiency as a rifleman. The cer
tificate will be suitable for inclusion in the national sé
lective service questionnaire.

Finishing their preliminary training period, the Bl
team already has qualified six men as expert riflemen ¢
the National Rifle Association’s course and twelve ont
war department course, according to Dr. Marcellus Stow
rifle coach. In addition ten men have qualified as sharp
shooters and twenty-five received their marksman’s rank
ing.

Intercollegiate matches—fifteen varsity and fifteé
freshman—will occupy the next half of the shootefs

 

program, which starts immediately after examinatio
with matches scheduled with L. S. U., Cornell, Columbi

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—
Harvard, Chicago, West Virginia, C. C. N. Y. and other
rifle aggregations. Several shoulder-to-shoulder matches

are also being arranged, Dr. Stow said.
c

Fencing

By LATHAM THIGPEN

lencing, organized several times
in the past at Washington and Lee
wi:h small success, intrenched it-
self last month with the organization of the Washington
Sid Lee fencing club. Bill Murchison, freshman from
Mocksville, N. C., who organized the club, was elected
president and team captain.

Other officers chosen were George Blackburn, trea-

surer, Alvin Aisenburg, manager, and Dusty Millar, pub-
licity director.

With their number one and two men missing from
the foil team, the Blue swordsmen dropped a tough pre-
season skirmish to North Carolina university on January
11, 87-70. Captain Murchison, former A.M.A. blades-
man, led the scoring with 32 points, while Lew Pendleton
of W. and L, tied with the Tar Heels’ Deering for second
honors with 15 each.

Captain Murchison’s fencers will open their regular

february 15 against William and Mary at

season On

Williamsburg.

Board Adopts Athletic Recommendation

t AN athletic conference (composed of four represen-
A tatives of the Board of Trustees, four representatives
of the general Alumni Association, four representatives of
the faculty, and four representatives of the student body )
held in Lexington on January 20, the two following rec-
ommendations were formulated to be presented to the
University Board of Trustees:

I. With regard to the matter of student aid the Con-
ference recommends that the University reaffirm its po-
sition which is expressed in the following paragraphs
taken from the standards advocated by the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association.

In the award of scholarship aid and student aid in
general, an athlete shall not be discriminated against.

The award of any scholarship or student aid to an
athlete shall be made through the regular agency super-
vised by the college for the granting of aid to all students,
and athletic participation shall not be a condition for
such aid.

No athlete shall be deprived of scholarship or student
aid because of failure to compete in intercollegiate ath-
letics.

Aid extended by the college to athletes shall be
awarded on the basis of need without regard to the pro-
portion such awards represent in the total amount of aid
extended to all students.

An athlete shall be required in employment to give full
and honest return for pay received.

II. \With regard to the control of intercollegiate ath-
letics at the University, the Conference makes the fol-
lowing recommendation :

The control of Intercollegiate athletics is hereby vested
by the Board of ‘Trustees in a University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics. The membership shall consist

iy

of nine members—Two alumni appointed by the Alumni
Board; two students appointed by the Executive Com-
mittee of the Student Body; and five faculty members
appointed by the Board of Trustees. The Chairman of
the Committee shall be designated by the Board of ‘Trus-
tees from the aforementioned appointees.

The Committee shall recommend to the Board of ‘Trus-
tees the appointment of a Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics who shall be entrusted with the active and de-
tailed management of intercollegiate activities, subject to
the advice and control of the Committee which shall be
responsible directly to the Board of Trustees. The Direc-
tor shall be ex officio member of the Committee without
vote.

Nothing in the above provisions shall in any way inter-
fere with the right of the general faculty of the University
to control any and all matters of eligibility of students for
participation in intercollegiate contests, absences from
class work, or any other matter relating to the scholastic
work of members of the student body. All constitutional
provisions and all by-laws governing intercollegiate ac-
tivities which are inconsistent with these provisions are
hereby declared to be inoperative.

The committee formulating these recommendations
consisted of the following members: For the Faculty—
L.. W. Smith, G. D. Hancock, R. T. Johnson, L. H. Farin-
holt; for the Alumni—R. W. Fowlkes, C. S. Glasgow,
‘arle F. Fitzpatrick, John H. Thomas; for the Student
Body—Allen Snyder, William Buchanan, Cecil Taylor,
Al Fleishman ; for the Trustees—J. Morrison Hutcheson,
William McChesney Martin, Harry St. George Tucker
Carmichael, James R. Caskie.

The Board of Trustees, at its meeting on February 7,
adopted the recommendations as presented.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Lynchburg

Tue LyNcupurGc alumni met at the Boonesboro
Country Club on January 20.

New officers elected were C. Lynch Christian, Presi-
dent; Edward §S. Graves, Vice-President; and Dick
Gooch, Secretary-Treasurer.

The principal speakers of the evening were Foster
Mohrhardt, university librarian, and Dr. Reid White,
university physician.

A resolution was adopted to invite the alumni of
Bedford, Campbell, and Amherst counties to become
members of the chapter.

Another activity of the Lynchburg group was the an-
nual Washington and Lee Dance, which was held on
December 19 at the Oakwood Country Club. High and
preparatory school seniors were among the guests.

About thirty members attended the January meeting,
among whom were:

J. T. Noell, Jr.; Ed. Graves; Tom Kirkpatrick ;
Kiah T. Ford, Jr.; W. B. Walker, Jr.; John L. Mosby ;
S. H. Williams ; Cornelius D. Roberts; W. J. D. Bell, Jr.;
J. R. Charlton ; Dr. George Craddock ; Wm. T. McLeod ;
Bob Glass; O. C. Rucker; Dr. S. E. Oglesby ; A. Lynch
Ward, Sr.; R. A. Russell; Charlie Wills; Dr. C. H. Pat-
terson; Basil G. Watkins; R. C. Wood; Ashton Powell;
John Richardson; W. K. Ruffin; James B. Noell; DuVal
Radford; Hugh Ebert; E. M. Bristowe; R. E. Gooch;

Lynch Christian.

Cincinnati

Tue ALUMNI and undergraduates of Washington and
lee assembled for their Christmas luncheon this year on
December 23, at the Mayfair Room of the Sinton Hotel.
The meeting was purely a social gathering, and no busi-
ness of any kind was undertaken.

Alumni: Roger J. Bean, 14; Blake Dock, ’41; Burt
Farber, 32; John G. Hamilton, 32; Robert Hilton, °38;
Clyde Hoge, 08; Stewart Johnson, ’39; Spence Kerkow,
39; Alfred Kreimer, ’39; Walter McDonald, ‘10; Horace
J. McFarlan, 93; Dr. James T. Pearce, 89; Jack Reiter,
‘41: Robert Shrene, ‘40; Dan Startsman, °34; John
Tomlin, ’38.

Students : Robert Boyce ; Ned Brower ; Robert Cofield ;
Ralph Cohen; Alfred Heldman; Jeff Hudson; Robert
Lambert; Robert E. Lee; Tom Morris; Bill Stephenson ;
Bill Webb; Bob Wersel.

[ 14 |

 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

San Antonio

On GENERAL Le£eE's birthday the San Antonio chap-
ter held a banquet at the Milam attended by about thirty-
five alumni.

Russell Wine acted as toastmaster, and talks were
made by Albert Steves, Jr., Joe Glass, and, according to
Albert Steves, III, the secretary, “by practically every-
one else present.”

Among those attending were:

J. P. Aylmer; W. T. Beitel; E. A
Basse; Billy Fowlkes; Joe G. Glass; E. R. Guenther
Jack Gugenheim ; Joe Gugenheim; B. C. Harnisch; V. R,
Hood; Van Hook Howard; Park Street; J. L. Lytle, Jr;
T. J. Newton; H. K. Oppenheimer; A. C. Pagenstecher
W. W. Palmer; Joe Clay Roberts; S. E. Roberts; E. L,
Schilo; H. E. Trail; Ff. H. Wolff; Carl Wurzbach; Sa
Steves; Albert Steves, Jr.; Walter Steves, I1; Tomm
Graves of Cuero. |

Philadelphia

THE PHILADELPHIA alumni group held a luncheon an¢
business meeting at Wanamaker’s ‘Tea Room on Saturday
January 11.

The following officers and committees were electe¢
for the coming year:

President, Lynwood R. Holmes, 1900; Vice-Presi
dent, E. W. G. Boogher, ’02; Secretary-Treasurer, Nor
wood E. Band, ’34; Board of Managers, Fred S. John
son, 11; Samuel Baker, ’16; Harry Robert, ’22; Howare
Snyder, ’31; Frank T. Bready, ’31.

Committees: Entertainment, Harry Axelroth, ‘07
Membership, Blair Price, ’21; Scholarship, G. H. Bowers
‘22; Publicity, Atherton Seeley, ’31; Alumni Inc., Davi
Seeley, °36.

There was enthusiasm expressed for the Philadelphié
group to begin making definite contributions to the uni
versity and also to become the university's most active

Beard; Jesse

chapter.
Plans were put in motion for a banquet to be hele
probably on Washington's birthday.

Louisville

Tue Lovutsvitte alumni met on January 20 in the
Brown Hotel. President George Burks, 1927, presided.
Speeches were made by Edward A. Dodd, Mr. Mill

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—————

purn of the Male High School, and Robert P. Hobson.

Fielden Woodward then introduced the speaker of the
evening, Professor I*. James Barnes, II, of Washington
and Lee.

New officers elected were: Oldham Clarke, president ;
Fielden Woodward, Vice-President; and Ernest Walker,
Secretary- Treasurer.

About 56 attended, including parents, wives, sweet-
hearts, alumni, and prospective students.

Among them were:

Members and their wives: Mr. and Mrs. Fielden
Woodward; Mrs. and Mrs. EK. D. Axton; Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Foree; Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Woodward, Jr.; Mr.
and Mrs. George Burks; Mr. Hunt Collins; Mrs. Charles
Semple; Mr. Tom Tuley; Mr. Terry Blandford; Mr.
Lyne Smith; Mr. Tom Nugent; Mr. Ernest Walker ;
Mr. and Mrs. John Faison; Mr. John Petot, Jr.; Mr.
Henry Hill; Mrs. Ek. C. Hill; Mr. Horace Barker; Mr.
and Mrs. James Veech; Mr. Ed Dodd; Mr. Murrel
Klein; Mr. Tilford Payne; Mr. EF. G. Barker; Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Tabb; Mr. Stanley McGee; Mr. Peel
Rivers; Mr. and Mrs. Oldham Clarke; Mr. and Mrs. Ed
Rietze, Jr.; Mr. Martin Kaplan; Mr. and Mrs. Grenberry
Simmons; Mr. Robert Hobson; Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Bon-
durant; Mr. EF. S. Clarke, Jr.; Dr. James Bruce.

Guests: Professor James Barnes; Professor W. S.
Milburn; Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Woodward, Sr.; Mr. and
Mrs. M. Viser; Mr. John S. Petot, Sr.; Mr. and Mrs.
J. B. LaPlante; Mr. Ben Kaplan; Mr. Bill Otter.

Baltimore

ON THE evening of November 29, 1940, the Balti-
more Alumni Chapter held its annual meeting and dinner
at the Longfellow Hotel at 6:30 p. m. As is customary,
this get-together is held annually on the day before the
Washington and Lee-Maryland football game.

Cy Young was pr¢sent and added much to the occa-
sion by his remarks rélative to the Alumni Organization,
the University, and our team.

Dr. Johnson of the Law Faculty, in his delightful and
interesting way, gave a short talk on “Washington and
Lee Ideals and Traditions.”

sefore the meeting closed, Cy Young showed moving
pictures of the activities at 1940 Finals and one of the last
football games.

J. Carl Fisher was elected President of the Baltimore
Chapter to succeed A. H. Chandler, and Latimer G.
Young, who had been serving in the capacity of Secre-
tary and ‘Treasurer, was elected to succeed himself in
that office.

lhose present voted the evening a most enjoyable

one and were enthusiastic in their desires to have more
frequent get-togethers.

Among those attending the meeting were :

W. F. Railing; L. B. Ranson; Dr. Matthew Page An-
drews ; Eugene P. Martin, Jr.; P. J. Seraphine, Jr.; M. R.
Bruin, Jr.; Frank H. Jacobs, Jr.; John A. Johnston;
Henry M. White; W. Carroll Mead; Calvert Thomas;
James W. Mcklroy, Jr.; Henry W. Dew; John Stra-
horn, Jr.; O. R. Price; Latimer G. Young; Harry K.
Young; Harry Baugher; IF. Stanley Porter; Samuel E.
Tyler; The Reverend Mr. R. Allen Brown; Gray W.
Hume, Jr.; M. William Adelson; Brent Farber, Jr.;
Arthur W. Mann, Jr.; William L. Nelson, Jr.; J. Carl
Fisher; J. C. Hoover; Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr.; Julian
5. Gravely ; C. A. Thompson ; T. Roland Thomas ; Emory
Landon; A. H. Chandler ; Raymon ‘T. Johnson.

Washington

THE autumn smoker of the Washington chapter of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association was held
Friday night, November 29, on the eve of the Maryland
game, at the Raleigh Hotel.

Guests at the smoker from Lexington included Cap'n
Dick Smith, Coach Tex Tilson, Coaches Cunningham and
Hennemier and Lea Booth, director of sports publicity.

Out of town alumni present were Bill Ward of At-
lanta and George Glynn of New York City.

Coach Tilson reviewed the football season and dem-
onstrated that he is a prophet as well as coach by saying
the approaching game with Maryland would be a toss-up.
The score was 7 to 7. The coach, in reply to a question,
said the scholarship average of the football squad was
highly satisfactory, better, in fact, than that of the non-
playing students.

Dick Smith gave the alumni an interesting picture of
the general athletic situation at Washington and Lee and
brought the oldsters up to date on the changes over the
years on the campus.

Retiring officers of the chapter are Richard W. Hyn-
son, president ; William O. Burtner, vice-president ; John
A. Hanley, III, secretary and treasurer and Charles F.
Suter and EK. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., additional executive
committeeman.

New officers and executive committeemen elected :

Brian Bell, (chief of the Washington bureau of the
Associated Press), president; William O. Burner, (at-
torney, department of justice), vice-president ; Alexander
M. Walker, (security analyst, Securities and Exchange
Commission), secretary and treasurer; Melville B. Cox,
(real estate broker, Phillips & Canby, Inc.), secretary for

(Continued on page 18)

[ 15 |

o tS.
.* ow
® oy
>
®
- rR
PRAAALALLRAAA SS Se Oe oe

 

Above are shown nine of the eighteen social fraternities represented at Washington and Lee: (1) Kappa Sigma; (2) Phi Kappa Psi; (3) a
Tau; (4) Pi Kappa Phi; (5) Sigma Chi; (6) Delta Tau Delta; (7) Alpha Tau Omega; (8) Sigma Alpha Epsilon; (9) Kappa 4

  

 

 

Ab

~“@€mbda Ch

 
 

hown nine of the eighteen social fraternities represented at Washington and Lee: (10) Pi Kappa Alpha; (11) Phi Gamma Delta; (12)
i Alpha; (13) Delta Upsilon; (14) Beta Theta Pi; (15) Sigma Nu; (16) Phi Epsilon Pi; (17) Phi Delta Theta; (18) Phi Kappa Sigma

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Association Notes
(Continued from page 15)

alumni scholarship fund; Richard W. Hynson and
Charles F. Suter, additional executive committeemen.

A fine spirit of enthusiasm was developed at the smok-
er and tentative plans were made for an active year.

Those present: Brian Bell; Orville Clifton Bell; Lea
Booth; Edmund D. Campbell; Madison P. Coe; Wilton
Wallace Conner; Melville Beveride Cox; Coach Cun-
ningham ; Herbert Doolihite; George Glynn; Herbert M.
Griffith; John Alexander Hanley; G. Hilliard Harper ;
Coach Hennemeier; Richard W. Hynson; George Jun-
kin; H. Wise Kelly; Major Bernard R. Kennedy; Vin-
cent M. Miles; W. Earnest Offutt; Frank L. Price; Dick
Smith; David E. Strain; Coach Tilson; A. Dawson
Trundle; Alexander M. Walker; Bill Ward; Robert K.
Williams ; John C. Worthington.

 

Four Outstanding Alumni
(Continued from page 9)

keting agrements. Secretary Wallace appointed him in
1939 to the Agricultural Advisory Counsel to meet the
situation created by the outbreak of the European War ;
while, in 1940, he was asked by Mr. Chester C. Davis to
serve on the Advisory Commission to the Council of Na-
tional Defense.

He has a wife, two boys, and a girl. He was awarded
an honorary degree of Doctor of Agriculture from the

Alabama Polytechnic Institute. The Progressive Farmer

selected him as the South’s “Man of the Year’ in 1939.
None of us, we believe, would disagree with the selection.

 

In Memoriam

Mayor GENERAL RANsomM Hooker GILLE?rt, of the
class of 1896, died on January 16 in New Lebanon Center,
New York, his birthplace.

Although General Gillett attended Washington and
Lee for only two years, taking his B.S. at Yale and his
LL.B at Union University, he was a loyal and interested
alumnus.

His career as a lawyer was distinguished, including a
year in the New York State Legislature from 1919-1920,
and a term as Assistant Attorney-General in 1934. His
greatest fame arose, however, from the part he played in
the World War. He won citations from three nations for
gallantry ; the Croix de Guerre with Palm from Belgium ;
the British Expeditionary Force Ribbon, and the United
States Conspicuous Service Cross.

General Gillett was 63 when he died.

[ 18 ]

New Arrivals
1913

P. C. Burorp and Mrs. Buford announced the birth
of a daughter, Susan, on November 8, 1940.

 
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
   
   

1918

Mr. AND Mrs. EpmMuNp DoucLas CAMPBELL, A.B,
18, LL.B. ’22, announce the birth of twin sons, Hen
Donald Campbell and Benjamin Pfohl Campbell, on Fet
ruary 2, 1941.

1920 :

Mr. AND Mrs. T. SELDEN JoNEs, LL.B. ’20, of Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, are the proud parents of Judy
Lawson Jones, born January 23, 1941.

1931

WaLtTeR Epwarp (“BEEF”) HorrMan and Mrs
Hoffman, announced the birth of Carole Lee Hoffman
on January 5, 1941. The father, a Law graduate, was a
football line coach when he was here.

 

Engagements and Weddings
1917

Witti1aAm OLiIn Burner will be married this spring
to Miss Marceline Shinker. Their engagement was an
nounced on December 16. Mr. Burtner is at present an at
torney in the office of the assistant solicitor general, De
partment of Justice, Washington, D. C. |

1934

Joun H. Tuomas, B.A. 1934 and LL.B 1936, was
married to Antoinette Bond on December 4, 1940, in the
Church of the Sacred Heart, Charleston, West Virginié

1935

ANDERSON BrowNeE and Mrs. Martha B. Doolittle of
St. Louis were married in Virginia City, Nevada, on Dé
cember 7, 1940.

1938

Joun Caprro was married to Miss Dorcas Duling of
January 18 in Charleston, West Virginia.

1939

G. Crawrorp Kerr wrote that he was married lé
November, but he failed to divulge the name of the bride

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1892

Hate Houston, affection-
ately known as “Uncle Bud,”
lives in his old home in Lexing-
ton, “The Castle.” After a rath-
er serious illness last spring, he

 

is quite well again.

which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccu-
rate. If so, we hereby apologize.

for ten
years, represented his county in
Virginia Constitutional Conven-
tion of 1901-02 and represented
his District in Congress from
1921 to 1925. He was married a
few years after leaving school

monwealth’s Attorney

Inasmuch as many of the letters on ‘

 

 

Joun W. Davis of the law
firm of Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Gardiner and Reed, 15
Broad Street, New York, is a member of the University
Board of Trustees, and is frequently on the campus.

JouNn J. Davis is still practicing law in the Kentucky
Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky, under the
firm name of Blakey, Davis and Lewis.

1893
Priny FISHBURNE is in the drug business in Waynes-
boro, Virginia.
|. M. Bossreux is with the Board of Real Estate As-
sessors for the City of Richmond, Virginia.
EvijAH FUNKHOUSER is building appraisal engineer
for the City of Chicago and Cook County.

1895
Wittiam McCursney Martin is Governor of The
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. He is also a member
of the University Board of Trustees and is frequently a
visitor to the campus.

C. J. Boppety is Minister of the West Side Presby-

terian Church, Seattle, Washington. He m

has announced the arrival of his first grand-

child. 3h ‘I 4
i | 4 |

1 8 9 6 bt
; ; re ae
W. B. Morrison is Professor of His- ar:

° ‘ ry ‘ = a
tory in Southeastern Teachers College, Du-
rant, Oklahoma, where he has been for the —

. . > © => ae
past thirty years. His five children are all Fa SL
J aa ==
grown.
=>.

M Stuart, Virginia, since leaving Washing-
ton and Lee in 1896. He has taken some
terest in politics, held the office of Com-

     

ae a) i ee I,
J. M. Hooker has been practicing law Mey

tia

Hay wit UN
©, al ae
allyl an

and has two children, the eld-
est being a son who is in his father’s firm.

FRANK Mezick is a retired clergyman living at 17
‘astern Avenue, Eastport, Maryland.

LeRoy Barrer and his charming wife, who was
Nettie Pratt of Lexington, paid their annual visit to Lex-
ington during the summer. He is teaching Latin at Trinity
College, Hartford, Connecticut.

1898

RicHarp W. FLournoy has for some years been As-
sistant to the Legal Adviser, Department of State, having
previously held the position of Chief, Bureau of Citizen-
ship, and Chief, Division of Passport Control. In addi-
tion to his routine duties, he has been working on a gen-
eral revision and codification of the nationality laws of
the United States, which he originated some years ago.
His address is 3122 P Street, N.W.., Washington, D. C.

CHARLES J. FAULKNER, JR., who for many years has
been with the Legal Department of Armour & Company,
316 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, underwent an oper-
ation for appendicitis in the spring, from
which he has entirely recovered.

Davin M. Barctay is with the United
States Tariff Commission, Washington, D.
C. He and his wife were visitors to Lexing-
ton during the summer. Their home is in
the Cordova Apartments, 20th and Florida
Avenue, Washington, D. C.

1899
JAMES MULLEN is a member of the law
firm of Williams, Mullen, Williams &
Hazelgrove, 1001 East Main Street, Rich-
mond, Virginia. His son graduated from

   

UPS; Mee

[ 19 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Princeton in 1939 and is one of the three leading amateur
outboard motor boat racers in the country.

Dr. G. B. Caprro is still practicing medicine in
Charleston, West Virginia.

H. B. Cuersipg is Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Charlotte Court House, Virginia.

J. EK. Gisu is Commissioner in Chancery, Colonial-
American National Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

Joun M. THEOBALD is a member of the law firm of
Theobald, Theobald and Theobald, Grayson, Kentucky.
He has two girls and a boy. His father and son are also
members of the firm.

1902

M. A. BRECKINRIDGE ts practicing law in Tulsa, Okla-

homa, with offices in the New World Building.

VoLNEY M. Brown left Washington and Lee in June,
1900, and that fall entered the Law Department of the
University of Texas, from which he graduated on June
11, 1902, going to El Paso, ‘Texas, in August of that
year. He has been engaged there continuously since in law
practice.

Dr. WILLIAM ALLAN says he has been peddling pills
around Charlotte, North Carolina, since 1908. He is Pres-
ident of the Medical Society of the State of North Caro-
lina.

1903

Witt P. LAMAR lives at 41 Muscogee Road, Atlanta,
Georgia.

JAmEs W. BaGLey continues his connection with
Harvard University as Lecturer in Geography. Colonel
Bagley retired from the regular army some years ago.

R. ‘T. FLANARY is President of the Norton Hardware
Company, Norton, Virginia.

R. ‘T. WaLvace is Minister of the Marion Presby-
terian Church, Marion, Alabama.

R. A. Rurr is with the Pocahontas Coal Company
near Elkhorn, West Virginia.

1904

Jutian F. BoucHELte is Judge of the Thirteenth
Judicial Circuit of West Virginia, with offices in Charles-
ton.

R. EF. Brown is practicing law in Arcadia, Florida. He

[ 20 |

   
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   

is also interested in the citrus industry and in lands and
timber.

Grorce EF. Haw is a member of the law firm of Ha
& Haw, Travelers Building, Richmond, Virginia. His
son, George, Jr., entered the University this fall, being
the third generation, as his grandfather received his de
gree here in 1867.

1906

H. M. Banpy is a member of the law firm of Bandy
& Bandy, First National Bank Building, Norton, Virginie

H. CLaupE Posst is a lawyer in Grundy, Virginia
He quotes one of the many pithy sayings of Judge Marti
P. (“Daddy”) Burks—‘*Young man, if you are riding
through the fields on horseback and come to a pair 0
drawbars and don’t know whether your horse can stey
over them or not, get off and lay the bars down.” He sa
this has been of great value to him in his practice. He he
a good law practice, a fair amount of property, and thre
nice children, two of whom are married.

ALBERT (“Kip”) STEVEs, JR., is still president of t
Steves Sash and Door Company, San Antonio, Texas
Three of his five sons have been at Washington and Lee
and a fourth is now a freshman.

1907

Dr. W. B. NEWELL is practicing medicine in Eni¢
Oklahoma.

Cot. H. W. MILLeEr is Professor of Mechanics a
‘ngineering Drawing, University of Michigan, Ann Af
bor, Michigan.

Dr. W. L. Lorp is head of the Department of Mathe
matics, Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Fore
Virginia. His son was a student here one year, but we
headed for a career in aviation, and is now attendi
Parks Air College, near St. Louis, Missouri, where he
doing well.

1908

By Horace W. “Racs” Puitvips, Class Agent
Ropert JENNINGS REVELEy is principal of the hig
schools of Canton, North Carolina. His health has ne
been very good for years, but he has carried on. He
one son. Our best wishes for his recovery.

-

ProrEssor EARL PAXTON is teaching mathematics ¢
Washington and Lee and is to be congratulated by
class upon following in the line of Alec Nelson and work
ing with Liv Smith. We hope that he will never agal
have to devote his mathematical skill to the solution ¢

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

problems arising because of the Virginia Underwriters’
Association. Despite his fire loss, he has been a generous
contributor with money and information.

JouN WALL LyKEs 1s associated with his brothers in
the numerous activities of Lykes Brothers and makes his
home at ‘Tampa.

Cov. JosEPpH Marton Moore is doing a fine job with
the Greenbrier Military School at Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia. “Moss” also shoots a fair game of golf (he says)
when his executive duties at the school and elsewhere
(notably at Montreat) do not prevent. Despite his pos-
sibly meritorious claim of indemnity
from further assessment at the hands of
the members of the class of 1908 be-
cause he happened to be class historian
32 years ago, he has consistently given

toward the Alumni Fund. —&

Howarp NEwWtTon CLENDENING sent
his son to Washington and Lee and his
daughter to the University of Arkansas.
He was especially interested in the sons
of his fellow students when he visited ee
his son while in Lexington. Howard is
chief engineer for a coal company. His
address is MacBeth, West Virginia. His
son has an appointment to West Point effective 1941.

CrypE L. GrEEN has been engaged in educational
work in North Carolina for a number of years and since
1937 has been County Superintendent of Education for
Robeson County, with offices at Lumberton. Robeson
County is one of the largest and most prosperous of the
counties in North Carolina and is sometimes called by the

lar Heels “the State of Robeson.”

Tuomas (Tommy) NeéweEtt Havytin lives at 900
North First Avenue, Arcadia, California and is Chief
Chemist and Metallurgist for the Bureau of Power and
Lights of the City of Los Angeles. He had the misfortune
of losing his wife during the spring of last year but is for-
tunate in having a daughter survive, who lives with him.

ALAN Porter L&E wrote us from 136 Liberty Street,
New York City. He calls himself an engineer. We call
him an engineer of parts, as his duties involve the design
and construction of process equipment for the fatty oils
and soap divisions of the chemical industry. His activities
in this large field take him to all parts of this hemisphere.

Monvacur (Monty) I. Lipprrt’s present address is
a ) 4 r . ‘
4718 Albemarle Street, W ashington, D. C.,
stand that his permanent address remains McLean,

but we under-

Vir-

 

ginia, and that he is an engineer for the Public Works
Administration.

Witiiam R. (Birt) Luan of 1906-1908 baseball
varsity fame is an Assistant Engineer with the Missouri
Pacific Railroad living in St. Louis. Bill writes that he
has two children in college, one a girl, the other a boy. He
took his family through Lexington last summer and they
all now understand why he feels as he does about Wash-
ington and Lee.

WixtirAm A. McCoy is Chief Chemist at the Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining Company's Barber, New Jer-
sey, laboratory. He has one boy
spent a year at Washington and Lee in
1936-1937 and who graduated this sum-
mer from Oberlin College.

who

DoziER DEVANE is a member of the
law firm of DeVane, Andrews & Pat-
terson, Florida Bank Building, Orlando,
Florida.

EK. L. BEALE is an Attorney-at-Law,

Franklin, Virginia. His son, Vaughan, is
also a graduate of Washington and Lee.

1909

Wittam TT. DELAPLAINE is one of

the Editors and Managers of the Great Southern Printing

and Manufacturing Company, publishers of The News
and The Frederick Post, of Frederick, Maryland. His
son graduated from Washington and Lee in 1939. He is
now a cadet in the Naval Corps Reserve at Pensacola,
Florida. He has been flying since he was sixteen.

IrED N. Harrison is with the Universal Leaf ‘To-
bacco Company, Exporters and Importers, Richmond,
Virginia.

J. Preston IRWIN is with Arthur G. McKee & Com-
pany, Engineers and Contractors, 2422 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio. He has three children, the oldest sched-
uled to enter Washington and Lee in 1941, a wife who is
active in woman’s club affairs, and a business which
always has something new and interesting to offer.

Jor Lykers, who was the very active president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association in 1939, is a
member of the firm of Lykes Brothers Company, Inc.,
Shippers, 17 Battery Place, New York.

“S.C.W., Denton,
“Along with Washington and Lee, I
have become a great admirer of

Amos l,.
ry
lexas.

Herovp is teaching in
He says:
Thomas Jefferson, and
have done some research and writing about him. In fact, I

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

have come to think of Jefferson as America’s finest ge-
nius as well as the most versatile of our presidents and
possibly the most versatile of all Americans.”

C. I. Carey is practicing law in St. Petersburg, Flori-
da, in the Florida National Bank Building. His firm is
Carey & Harrison.

L.. J. Boxtey is a frequent visitor to the campus and
is always one of the first to respond to his Class Agent's
letter.

GovERNoR JAMEs H. Prick has a son in the senior
class this year, James H. Price, Jr. He is a member of the
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity and was manager of last sea-
son’s football team.

H. Lester Hooker is Chairman of the State Corpo-
ration Commission of Virginia.

1910

Branson L,. Woop, who has been pastor of the Natu-
ral Bridge Presbyterian Church for fourteen years, ac-
cepted a call in May to the Piedmont Church at Callaway,
Virginia. He has three children, a boy 17, a girl 12, anda
boy 10.

ALBert McCown practiced his profession as a doctor
in Seattle, Washington, but recently has become con-
nected with the Michigan Department of Health, Lansing,
Michigan. He received his Doctorate in Public Health
from Johns-Hopkins in May.

W. E. Bryan is a member of the firm of Bryan Con-
struction Company, General Railroad Contractors, 1910
Market Street, Parkersburg, West Virginia.

1911

Louis S. PENDLETON is still employed in the office of
the Chief Counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue. His son
graduated at Augusta Military Academy and will study
law at Washington and Lee.

James E. GrEEVER is practicing law in Logan, West
Virginia, in the Guyan Valley Bank Building.

Joun F. Brown is Judge of the Twentieth Judicial
Circuit, Randolph and Upshur Counties, Elkins, West
Virginia.

L. L. Humpureys is President of the Security Na-
tional Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma.

Lewis G. Cooper is an Attorney and Counsellor at
Law, Greenville, North Carolina. His offices are in the
Edwards Building.

| 22 |

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

J. M. Barker, JR., is Agent for the Rhode Island
Insurance Company in Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee, Ty
the spring he had a delightful vacation cruising down the
Inter-Coastal Waterways to Beaufort, South Caroling
On this trip he renewed his college friendship with “ Rags’
PHILuips at Hardeeville, South Carolina.

1912

Artos J. Harsert is Judge of the Criminal Court 0
Harrison County, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Turo P. Rice is Assistant Superintendent of Agen
cies, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Hart:
ford, Connecticut.

Sipngéy Tuomas Ruck is Rector of St. Eustae
Church, Lake Placid, New York. He serves three mis
sion churches in addition to his Parish.

Howarp A. Doss gives his address as 6600 West 5tl
Street, Los Angeles, but gives no further news of himself

LeonaARD B. RANSON lives at 700 Easley Street, Silve
Springs, Maryland.

Paut P. GANNON is Treasurer and Superintendent 0;
the Stirling Coal Company.

E. D. McCuure is Secretary and Treasurer of t
‘ast Augusta Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Inc., ¢
Staunton, Virginia. His home is at Spottswood, Virgini
He was married in 1926 and has three children, two boy
ten and twelve, and a girl seven.

E_mo Frencu entered the practice of medicine 1
1918 in Jacksonville, Florida. He accepted a commissi¢
in the United States Army during the World War 2
was married in 1922. Subsequently he took up the spe
cialty of Dermatology and has since practiced that specié
ty in Miami, Florida. His office is in the Huntingte
Building.

Bos Dow is Solicitor for the United States Depart
ment of Agriculture. He is now living in Amarille
Texas. |

Wittram WILcox is practicing law in Allentowt
Pennsylvania. His son, William J., Jr., is in his secon
year at Washington and Lee.

Damon G. YERKES is practicing law in Jacksonvill
Florida, with offices in the Barnett National Bank Builé
ing. At Finals he made his first visit to the campus sine

1912.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1913

JouN J. D. Preston is Chairman of the Public Serv-
Commission of West Virginia, Charleston, West Vir-

ice
ginia.

ALEX SLOAN 1s a member of the Sloan Glass Com-
pany manufacturers of cut glass and stemware, P. O.
< J?)

Box 539, Cumberland, Maryland.

GAYLORD STONE is President of Universal Mills, Fort
Worth, Texas.

Bitty Wricut is State Senator from the Thirty-
second Senatorial District, Tappahannock,
Virginia.

Bor Wirt is President of the Builders
Supply Company, San Antonio, Texas.

1914

Sam WILLIAMS is still practicing law in
the Krise Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

 

Junius L. Powe tt is with Chubb & OR
Son, Underwriters, 90 John Street, New “
York. Up

W. Houston Barctay is in the insur- ;
ance business in Wichita, Kansas, with offices in the First
National Bank Building.

ALEX Hrrz is a member of the law firm of King, Hitz
& Partridge, Citizens and Southern National Bank Build-
ing, Atlanta, Georgia. His son is a student here this year,
having transferred to Washington and Lee from Emory
University. He also has a son, twelve, and a daughter,
ten.

J. D. THorNtTOoN is a member of the Real Estate and
Insurance firm of Fleming and Thornton, Huntsville,
Alabama.

Rocer J. BEAR is still in the Executive Offices of The
Kroger Grocery and Baking Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
He and his wife paid a visit to the Alumni Office in Sep-
tember, Roger exhibiting with some embarrassment and
some pride, two broken fingers received in a post-season
baseball game.

1915
K. L.. Suirk is practicing law at 33 N. Duke Street,
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and has been practicing ever
since law school, with the exception of two years in the
‘tiny during the World War. He served two years as
Assistant District Attorney and is now District Attorney
of Lancaster County.

   
 

Isaac B. SmiruH is engaged in general practice at
Petersburg, West Virginia, and served three terms as
Prosecuting Attorney for Grant County. He also served
in the World War in the 32nd Field Artillery. He is
married and has two children.

Roy SMITH is engaged in the practice of law at Vir-
ginia Beach, Princess Anne County, Virginia.

Harry G. Stocks is located at Valentine Apartments,
3724 Broadway, Kansas City, Missouri.

Joun G. TRIMBLE is located at the Trimble Building,
thy 1 Dorado, Arkansas, and though a mem-
ber of the bar of that city has not been in
the active practice of law. He has been very
_ successful in the oil production field, how-

-ever. He is married and has four children.

Lewis Tyree who is a professor of
_, law at the University of Newark, is now
y? located at 40 Rector Street, Newark, New
Jersey.

Witt H. Smiru gives his address as
Box 686, Ardmore, Oklahoma, but gives
no further news of himself.

SS

O. B. Barker, JR., is with the Barker-Jennings Hard-
ware Corporation, Lynchburg, Virginia.

DAN KELLER is with the Socony-Vacuum Oil Com-
pany, Inc., Detroit, Michigan.

J. A. BuRKE is in the insurance business in Appomat-
tox, Virginia.

Mike Bristow is an investment and insurance ad-
juster, 301 Krise Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

1916

Graby Forcy is still serving on the American Pe-
troleum Industries Committee, handling Public Rela-
tions for Oils Industry in ten southern states. His son,
John, is a member of the freshman class at Washington
and Lee this year.

ELwoop SEAL is Corporation Counsel in the District
of Columbia.

A. L. BENNETT? is Superintendent of the Allegheny
Public Schools, Covington, Virginia. He says he has just
been able to complete one of the best school plants in the
State of Virginia.

Harrison P. Macruper is teaching English and
Latin in the Morristown School, Morristown, New Jersey.

[ 23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1917

Gus OrTrENHEIMER is Vice-President and Treasurer
of Ottenheimer Brothers, Incorporated, Ladies Ready-to-
Wear Manufacturers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

S. E. DuRRANCE is practicing law in Orlando, Florida.
His offices are in the Fidelity Building. His two sons,
Frank and Gordon, then aged 7 and 5 years respectively,
attended grade school here while their father was in the
Law School.

Lare B. CHaFin is Prosecuting Attorney of Mingo
County, Williamson, West Virginia.

Hersert G. Perers is a member of the firm of Peters,
Lavinder, Peters & Rouse, Attorneys-at-Law, Bristol,
Virginia- Tennessee.

Luke WIL.IAMs is with the Bristol Company, In-
struments for Recording, Indicating, Controlling, 250
Stuart Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

CuHarviE MeNirv, who is practicing medicine in New
York City, has recently established a second office in
White Plains, New York. His hobbies are taking care of
three cocker spaniels, and riding horseback.

Preston Wuits is in the general practice of medicine
in Charlotte, North Carolina. He and his family were
visitors in Lexington during the summer.

1918

Marruew W. Paxton, Jr., is still editing the Rock-
bridge County News, in Lexington, Virginia, and is ac-
tive in civic affairs in his home town.

Lester D. ARNOLD is sales manager for the apple
interests of the Hon. Harry F. Byrd. His home is in
Winchester, Virginia.

Apvo.tpH Marx is President and Manager of “South-
west Louisiana’s largest department store’—Mueller’s,
Lake Charles, Louisiana.

1919

Witvieé Barron is in charge of the Rome Coca-Cola
Bottling Company, Rome, Georgia. He says he is still
married to the same wife he started with, and they have
two children, a girl thirteen years old and a boy eight.

Epwarp L,. GLADNEY is practicing law in Bastrop,
Louisiana. He is married and has two sons, ten and four
years of age respectively.

R. FE. Moore is teaching agriculture in Rockingham
County, “trying to get back that one blade of grass again

| 24 |

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

to avoid overproduction.”” He has three children, all ;
school, and is not considering going back to India untj
the war is over. He is living at Mt. Clinton, Virginia,

1920

Epon P. Kine is, and has been for many years, Spe
cial Deputy Commissioner of Internal Revenue in Was}
ington, D.C.

PINKNEY Grissom is a member of the law firm ¢
Thompson, Knight, Baker, Harris and Wright, Republi
Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

Gen Evans is still connected with the Lykes Broth
ers Insurance Agency in Tampa, Florida, as manage
He has recently built a new house which he is grea
enjoying.

J. WALLER CALLIson is a member of the firm ¢
Callison & Co., Inc., Echols Building, Staunton, Virgini
Real Estate, Rentals and Loans.

Hotmes Ratston is pastor of the Bethesda Presb
terian Church, Rockbridge Baths, Virginia. He also edt
the Adult Quarterly for the Southern Presbyteria
Church. |

Wittiam E. Jonnston is Assistant Sales Manage
American Sugar Refining Company, 120 Wall Stree
New York. He is married and has a son and daughte
He is active in Boy Scout work. His home is at 27 Stom
hurst Drive, Tenafly, New Jersey.

Henry Trorrer is still selling Ford cars in Pit
Bluff, Arkansas.
1921

Atrrep B. Levin has been representing the Neé
York Life Insurance Company in Joplin, Missouri, fe
the past seven years. He is married and has a son thirte
years old named Alfred Junior Levin.

Sam Ratnés is still practicing medicine in Memphi
‘Tennessee. His address is 1834 Madison Avenue.

T’. X. Parsons is a member of the law firm of Sh
walter, Parsons, Kuyk & Staples, Colonial-Americé
National Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

R. C. Woon is practicing law in Lynchburg, Virgint

Roy J. Grimiey, whose address is 7 North Broé
Street, Ridgewood, New Jersey, never misses Hom
coming.

W. E. Nesvert is practicing law in Lunenburg, V1
ginia. |

 

-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—

EpGAR JACKSON is teaching in the public high schools
of Norfolk, Virginia. His address is 1714 Bellevue Ave-
nue.

\Wit_rrED Wess has been teaching English at Augusta
sjilitary Academy, Fort Defiance, Virginia, since 1929.
He is married and has two daughters, nine and eleven.
He is active in church and Y.M.C.A. work, and is associ-
ate director of a boys’ summer camp.

Verbon E. Kemp is Executive Secretary of the Vir-
vinia State Chamber of Commerce, 111 North Fifth
Street, Richmond, Virginia. He has just completed a year
as president of the Associated State
Chambers of Commerce of the United
States.

RAYMOND SMITH is with Biggs,
Mohrman and Company, 61 Broadway,
New York.

C. M. CAMPBELL has been in the’
brokerage business for the past four
years and likes it very much. His firm is
Parks & Campbell, Lexington, Ken- & IS
tucky.

1923

RICHARD JORDAN is general manager
of the Better Business Bureau of Milwaukee, 710 N.
Plankinton Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He is mar-
ried and has two sons. He lives in Whitefish Bay, a sub-
urb about seven miles north of the city on Lake Michigan,
at 702 Kast Beaumont Avenue.

D. R. (“Toap”) SNIvELy is Vice-President and Sec-
retary of the Hagerstown Leather Company of Hagers-

town, Maryland. His daughter will enter Sweet Briar this
fall.

G. EK. Benson, Jr., has for the last six or seven years
been associated with Berry Dry Goods Company, whole-
salers, importers and manufacturers, Fort Smith, Ar-
kansas.

Tuomas JEAN Ets is Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Florida, serving with Grorce Couper Grpps,
Attorney General, LL.B. 1903. The Attorney General's
Office is in Tallahassee.

1924
By Otis Howe, Class Agent

Ranpo_pn G. Wuirtce is a member of the law firm
of Funkhouser and Whittle, 6 Kirk Avenue, Roanoke,
Virginia. He says he and Mrs. Whittle now have a tailor-
made family consisting of two boys, and a girl who was

born March 21, 1940.

    

Joun W. GREENE is practicing law in Knoxville,
Tennessee, with offices in the Park National Bank Build-
ing.

REED GRAVES is president of the Certified Concrete
Corporation of Lynchburg, Virginia. During his spare
time he runs a farm as a hobby and is trying to learn to
fox hunt without breaking ribs. He is married and has
two daughters.

WaLTER A. FLICK is a professor in the Department
of Psychology and Education at Washington and Lee. He
is a member of the Faculty Committee on Alumni.

Dr. NICHOLAS GOTTEN is practicing
neurological surgery in Memphis. He has
a wife and two children, besides an as-

Joun F. HeNpon has been in the
automobile parking and service business
since 1928, in Birmingham, Alabama. He

Oh was married in 1937. After leaving
="school he spent a year and a half with
the United Fruit Company in Costa Rica.

SENATOR JosEPH W. HopkINs is
serving in the Mississippi Senate after twelve years in
the Legislature. He practices law in Clarksdale, Missis-
sippi, and so far has managed to keep free of all matri-
monial entanglements.

1925

Roy SLACK is in the operating end of the electric util-
ity business. About five years ago he was transferred
from his home town at Charleston, West Virginia, to
Atlantic City, as General Meter Superintendent of the
Atlantic City Electric Company, which is one of the
“children” of the American Gas & Electric System. He is
married and has a daughter nine years old.

Dr. R. L.. CLATERBAUGH is connected with the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Hospital, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

AL. St. JOHN is with H. W. St. John Custom House
Brokers, 18 Pearl Street, New York. He is married and
has a boy nine and a girl six.

ALLAN P. SLOAN is with the Jeff Hunt Road Ma-
chinery Company, Columbia, South Carolina, in the ca-
pacity of Sales Manager. He is married and has a son
who insists that Washington and Lee needn't worry about
a quarterback in 1956 because he will be there.

Jor Hort has been with the Securities and Exchange
Commission since October, 1938, in the position of Senior

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Attorney in the Registration Division. The Director of the
Division is BALDWIN BANE, a loyal alumnus of Washing-
ton and Lee. Mr. Holt is married and has two boys, two
and four years old, respectively.

James C. Dunn recently paid a visit to the Alumni
Office. He is now a prosperous farmer in Oakdale, Cali-
fornia, specializing in cattle raising. This was his first
trip back to the campus since graduation.

1926

Emmett W. MacCork es is with the Air Reduction
Sales Company, Hawley Building, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia.

Ecpripcrk Gerry BarKEr, III, is treasurer of the
John A. Wathen Distillery Company, Fourth Street at
Market, Louisville, Kentucky.

Epwarp A. Dopp is a member of the law firm of
Dodd & Dodd, Suite 515, Marion FE. Taylor Building,
Louisville, Kentucky.

1928

Dick JorDAN, Jr., is Title Officer with the Lawyers
Title Insurance Corporation, Richmond, Virginia.

1929

Stewart McArtruur TAYLOR is with Fillette, Green
& Co., Steamship Agents. His address is 113 Mohawk
Street, Mobile, Alabama. Their lines ran to Spain, Italy,
France, Norway, Sweden, Holland and England. Now
they don’t run. He is married and has two children.

Harry SCHEEN STEPHENS is practicing law in Cou-
shatta, Louisiana.

THomas PERRIN Wricut is teaching in The Great
Falls Public Schools, Great Falls, South Carolina.

Bitty Hinvon is a professor in the Department of
Psychology and Education at Washington and Lee.

Rosert S. Bacon is Assistant Cashier and Manager
of the Bond Department of the First National Bank,
Mobile, Alabama. He is married and has a daughter five
years old.

James Murpocu SHACKELFORD is in the employ of
the firm of Price, Waterhouse & Company, Public Ac-
countants. His address is 65 Central Park Avenue, Yon-

kers, New York.

WaLcrer NELSON PHARR is a Captain with American
Airlines, Chicago, Illinois. He flies 25,000 pounds of
Douglas DC-3’s between Chicago and New York.

[ 26 |

  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

1930

LEONARD Davis is a member of the law firm of Whit
& Davis, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

Leo V. Fany gives his address as 505 Maple Ridg
Road, Bethesda, Maryland.

Ep Bostwick is with the Travelers Insurance Con
pany, Richmond, Virginia. His residence address is 1
N. Harvie Street.

Davip Moreton was married on April 20th last, ar
has set up housekeeping on South Church Street, Brool
haven, Mississippi. He is still working for the Cent
Lumber Company in Quentin, Mississippi. |

ALBERT STEVEs is still located in Fort Worth, Tex
and is one of the members of the Class who came back
the reunion during last Finals.

1931

FRANK Breapy is doing fine work as secretary of tl
local chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni in Phil
delphia. His address is 58 West Upsal Street, Phi

delphia.

Av Persry is practicing law in Tazewell, Virginia.

CuarLes Bowes has left the Daily Oklahoman
Oklahoma City and moved to LaGrande, Oregon, whet
he is general manager of the Observer, a daily newspapt
covering two counties in the northeastern part of
state. His family consists of Charles, 4 years old, af

Jon, 1%.

Watson Bowes is in the Real Estate business i
Denver, Colorado, in a firm which now includes his fa
and a younger brother. He is married and has two
dren, Watty, Jr., now 6, and Ella Kate, now 3.

1932

Bos NELSON is in the lumber business in Annapo
Maryland. His address is 6 Murray Avenue. 7

Cart C. Tucker is a member of the law firm 0
Jones, Day, Cockley & Reaves, 1759 Union Commer
Building, Cleveland, Ohio. |

C. P. Lee has a new job at Harvard, teaching OF
class in English there and one at Radcliffe. His secor
novel will be published before long.

Jack SruLowitz has completed his medical cours
and internship and is now practicing his profession

Belpre, Ohio. His address is 406 2nd Street, Belpre.

-

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

Joun W. ZIMMERMAN 1s with the Champion Coated
Paper Company, Hamilton, Ohio. He lives at 909 Alber-
ton Avenue, Hamilton.

Coré ADAMS Is practicing law in Blackstone, Virginia,

Jerry I’RAMPTON is a member of the firm of J. J.
Frampton & Son, Funeral Directors, Federalsburg, Mary-

land.

Lutruer F. Vio_err, who has been with Dun & Brad-
street 1n Cleveland, has recently been made manager of
the firm’s office in Lexington, Kentucky. His address will
be Dun & Bradstreet, Inc., Citizens Bank
& Trust Company Building, 201-203 West
Short Street, Lexington, Kentucky.

4
GEORGE STOUT is a public accountant. nf
He is married and lives at 147 Sunset
Drive, Pontiac, Michigan. He says he hasa &
nine months old boy who has taken charge

 

of his house.

| (sat
oi CS

(aa

—

\|

CHARLES LONGACRE, JR., is teaching in

    
 

permanently located in ‘Tulsa, Oklahoma, with the United
States Engineering Office as a Junior Hydraulic Engi-
neer. His address is 1433 South Frisco Street.

FRED FUNKHOUSER is Secretary-Manager of the
Harrisonburg Loan & Thrift Corporation, Harrisonburg,
Virginia.

Harvey Pripg is in the furniture business. He is man-
ager of the United Furniture Company, Decatur, Ala-
bama.

1935

Tuomas C. SmirH passed the Oklahoma State Bar
the fall after he graduated at Washington
and Lee. He practiced law for a year and
y then became associated with the Chestnut
ws Securities Company, which deals in  vari-
z¢ ous kinds of investments. He was married
last March to Eileen Keelty of Baltimore.

D. S$. MacDonatp, Jr., is practicing

a ; —— law in Durant, Oklahoma, having taken
meeeveth, — pe ners oes Hesand See ee over the offices and business of his father
his mother took a trip to England, Scot- SMe and uncle, Davin S. and eet Reebiee
eo cs. aH LIN oe DoNnaALp, both of whom died of heart at-

ALLEN WOFFORD is special agent for a tacks within a few weeks of each other.

the Prudential Insurance Company, Johnson City, Ten-

nessee. He is married and has a son about 22 months old.

Bos Morris, JR., is in the First National Bank, Keno-
va, West Virginia.

Burt Farser is married and lives in the Belvedere
Apartments, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Birt Wervz is practicing law in Wooster, Ohio. His
address is 127 East Liberty Street.

PickENS WALKER is Assistant State News Editor
with the Florida Times-Union, Jacksonville, Florida.

JoHN CULLEY is now living in Dixon, Illinois.

1934
Tuomas D. AnpErson is practicing law with the
firm of Andrews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell, Gulf
Building, Houston, ‘Texas.

Gro. A. Pruner has been practicing law in his home
‘own, Lebanon, Virginia, since graduating from the
\ ashington and Lee Law School. He was elected a mem-

. of the House of Delegates of Virginia in the fall of
939,

Rogerr L.. BUFFINGTON has worked in nine states
“ince leaving Washington and Lee. He now seems to be

They were both alumni of Washington and Lee.

J. Howe Gover is an Attorney and Counselor at
Law in Union City, Tennessee.

Bit Cover is employed by the duPont Company. His
address is 1311 Delaware Avenue, Wilmington, Dela-
ware.

NorMANn Fitzuucu passed his Certified Public Ac-
countant examination in April. His residence address is
14 Fern Avenue, Charleston, West Virginia.

1936

ALFRED Kaun completed his work at Harvard Medi-
cal School in June. This summer and fall he will study
Pathology at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston,
and beginning January 1, 1941, will serve a two-year
Medical Internship at the Michael Reese Hospital, Chi-
cago.

CHARLIE SWEET is employed by a bank in White
Plains. His address is 10 Vine Street, Bronxville, New

York.

Ross THurston is employed in the law firm of Rear-
don and Lyng of St. Louis. He was married last April.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

HERBERT ExiAs SLOAN, JR., is interning for another
year in Baltimore. He took his medical work at Johns
Hopkins. His home is in Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1937

Jor ARNOLD is practicing law with offices in the First
National Bank Building, Lexington, Kentucky.

James P. Barker entered the practice of law in
Helena, Arkansas, after leaving Washington and Lee.
Last April he was elected City Attorney of West Helena.

Woop BovuLpiIn graduated from the Harvard Law
School and expected to be located in Charleston, West
Virginia, when his letter was written in May.

T. F. Ratpus attended school in the East after leav-
ing Washington and Lee. He is now permanently located
in Salt Lake City, Utah. He and his partner operate two
storage garages and the Mercury, Lincoln, and Lincoln
Zephyr distributorship for Utah, Nevada and Wyoming.

1938

E. A. Sartor, Jr., is conducting the family business
interests in Shreveport, Louisiana. His engagement to
Miss Jean Oliver of Atlanta and Sweet Briar was an-
nounced on August 17. The marriage took place on
October 17, three years from the date she accepted his
fraternity pin at Opening Dances.

Y. L. Watson, after graduating in law at the Uni-
versity of Georgia, has been working in Quincy, Florida.
He took the Florida Law Examination in February.

Rosgert ‘T'HomaAs is a Second Lieutenant in the United
States Marine Corps, stationed with the First Battalion.

Buxton Hosss is working for the Library of Con-
gress in Washington, D. C.

Catvert T'HomaAs and Tom Berry are studying law
at the University of Maryland. Calvert stands third in
his class and is on the Law Review staff.

1939

Epcar Lewis SMITH is connected with the West Vir-
ginia Department of Probation and Parole at the State
Penitentiary, Moundsville, West Virginia. He has suc-
cessfully passed the West Virginia bar examination and
is now a member of the American, West Virginia, and
Greenbrier County Bar Associations.

Dan Fatiat is working as an accountant. His ad-
dress is Downtown Y.M.C.A., Buffalo, New York.

| 28 |

——ee 4

JouNn Pkrarson is practicing law with Charles H
Blackall at 36 Pearl Street, Hartford, Connecticut.

JosepH C. Murpuy is working in the offices of.
Bowers & Rinehart, Second National Bank Building, |
Somerville, New Jersey. 4

JOHN SHERRILL, after graduating at Washington and.
Lee, attended a scouting school in New Jersey and then.
secured a job in the field of his choice, professional scout. |
ing, in Griffin, Georgia. His address is 509 West Taylor
Street, in that city. q

Rosert S. Hoy’ is Assistant Manager of the Hamp. |
den Branch of the Equitable Trust Company in Baltj-—
more. His address is 2019 Maryland Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland. His engagement was recently announced to.
Miss Isabel Williamson, formerly of Lexington, Virginia,

Ratpu H. SmirH is practicing law in the firm off
Payne, Minor, Ray and Davis, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia. 7

Joun S. MEHLER graduated in June from the Colum.
bia University School of Library Service. His permanent
address is Waynesboro, Virginia. 4

WitiiAMm K. Sex# says he has applied himself so dili-
gently that his firm is now in the process of building the |
best Oil Mill in the South, but admits that a small portion |
of the money is coming from his father’s efforts as well
as his own. His address is care Self & Company, Planters
Ginners, Marks, Mississippt. 4

Bos Mitiican, Jr., attended Wayne University in|
Detroit after leaving Washington and Lee in June, 1937,
and there received a certificate in Business Administration,
took the summer off, and is now working in the Sales |
Promotion and Advertising Department of the Seaman- |
Patrick Paper Company in Detroit. q

Rosert A. NicHorson recently attended Signal Corps:
School at Fort Monmouth, N. J. He is now communica-_
tions officer in Artillery Regiment of Marine Corps Fleet
Marine Force. He was recently commended by Marine
Corps for developing a chemical for military use. He is
with the Tenth Marines, Marine Corps Base, San Diego,
California.

Rocrrs M. Cox was married June 22, 1940. He is en-
gaged in public accounting with Ernst & Ernst, 50 Con-
gress Street, Boston, Massachusetts. j

Joun R. Karerry is working with the Hercules”
Powder Company. He expects to be transferred to Rad-
ford, Virginia, in April, when that plant opens. i

(Continued on page 33)

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Contributors to Alumni Fund in 1940

The following list of contributors to the Alumni Class Fund represents the best year we have had since the Class
Agent Plan was adopted in 1933, both in number and amount of contributions. It does not include the names of those

who replied to their Class Agent’s letter, without sending a contribution, although this response is deeply appreciated.
The plan has shown a steady growth from year to year but there are still a surprisingly large number of our out-
standing alumni who have never made a response of any kind to the strenuous efforts of their Class Agents. Under the
revised plan which is being put into effect this year, which is fully explained in the President’s Page, the alumnus
will have the opportunity of saying to which one of the needs of the University his gift will be allocated. We hope to
receive letters this spring, with or without a contribution, not only from those alumni who have consistently cooperated

‘1 this movement, but from many others who have neglected this opportunity of service to the University.

1869-1891

A. K. Bowles

fer. Drake

*Samuel S. Guerrant
Henry W. Holt
Frederick M. Hudson
W. J. Humphries
Edwin W. Kaminski
Greenlee D. Letcher
*E, W. MacCorkle
James Quarles

James R. Winchester
W. G. Wiglesworth

1892

M. G. Bruce

John J. Davis

John W. Davis
Herbert Fitzpatrick
E. L. Green

Hale Houston

W. F. Moore
William C. Morton
V. E. Turnbull
Rees Turpin

*W. Reynolds Vance

1893

H. A. Albright

J. B. Bullitt

E. Funkhouser

B. A. Judd

George Bolling Lee
Harry White Myers
Harry W. Pratt
Harrington Waddell

1894

e.-P. Coles
John M. Graham
1895
C. J. Boppell
William McChesney Martin
Lyne S. Smith

1896

H. H. Larimore

J. W. Lattomus

Paul S. Mertins
C. C. Tutwiler

1897
LeRoy C. Barret
F. Petrie Hamilton
William J. Lindenberger
Frank Mezick
Mosby G. Perrow
Thos. H. Webb

1898
Henry W. Anderson
William A. Adair
David M. Barclay
Charles J. Faulkner, Jr.
Norman §. Fitzhugh
Richard W. Flournoy
S. Garland Hamner
RK. VW: Holt
Oscar CC; Hutiman
Ross McCain
Edward A. O’Neal
Ernest W. Ripy
H. Bu Ripy
RK. He Rogers
W. W. Whitside

1899
G. B. Capito
H. St G. 7 Carmichael
H. B. Chermside
W. E. Davis
J. W. Garrow
*TLee Gibbs
Seddon Jones
Stoo and
James A. McClure
James Mullen
C. PU Snyder
Braden Vandeventer

W.C. Watson

1900
A. G. Davis
C.F, Harrison
L,-Ro Holmes
Henry H. Skyles
J. Ran, Fucker
R. A. Watson

1901

W.R. Allen
Matthew Page Andrews

| 29 |

Clarence C. Burns
Stewart L. Crebs
be Ott

A. F. White

1902

William Allan

E. W. Boogher
Volney M. Brown
W. Dewey Cooke
R. O. Crockett
Weel? Ellis

J. Wood Glass
Morrison Hutcheson
Scott M. Loftin
C. S. McNulty
Osman E. Swartz
1. 2 Watt

D.-, Witt

1903

J. W. Bagley
Thomas Ball

CoA Boaz

Joseph D. Collins
B. F. Combs

John M. Corbett
Rote bilanary
Samuel McP. Glasgow
D. V. Guthrie
Wee: Lamar
George H. Lee

J. C. McPheeters
Herbert S. Osburn
R. A. Ruff

Wm. J. Turner
John W. Warner
Robert T. Wallace
J. F. Wysor

1904

J. B. Akers

George E. Haw

M. T. McCluer
Kenneth I. McKay
Lyle M. Moffett

E. W. Poindexter
S. W. Schaefer
William O. Wilson
George C. Worthen

1905
}.. 1. Daniel
W. G. Riddick

1906

H. M. Bandy

James R. Caskie
Francis R. Crawford
L. J. Desha

C. A. Dunlap

J. W. Eggleston
William L. Hoge
Claude P. Light
Basil M. Manly
Wm. H. Moreland
Henry Claude Pobst
A. W. Rutan

R. B. Spindle

Albert Steves, Jr.

J. Robert Switzer
Leo Weinberg

1907

H. R. Axelroth
T. O. Bagley
Walter W. Doub
W. RJ. Dann
E. Clyde Hoge
AR Larrick
WL) Lord
Donald W. M. MacCluer
Vincent M. Miles
H. W. Miller

W. B. Newell

1908-A

Grover A. Batten
John M. Bierer

R. P. Bledsoe

D.-P. Boyer

L. Co Carpenter. Jr:
T. Russell Cather
Howard N. Clendenning
R. A. Dodd

G. C. Gabriel
Harry W. Gassman
Robert Glass

W oS; Graham
Julian S. Gravely
Robert R. Gray

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

George Gunby
‘E.N, Havlin
John P. Hobson, Jr.
W: P. Hooper

W. M. Johnson
Edward F. King
A. P. Lee

M. TLappett

A. W. Lybrand
John W. Lykes

R. C. Milling

J. M. Moore

J.P. Norflect
Philip. P.. Pace
Re, Page

Harl_ K. Paxton
W.M. Paxton

H. W. Phillips
Frank Rader
William F. Riser
Ben Smith

Elmer W. Somers
Beverley E. Steele
L. M. Stern

Po W. Furner

1908-L
Dozier A. DeVane
H. M. Dow
George E. Penn, Jr.
A. P. Staples
R. B. Stephenson

1909-A
John L,. Campbell
C. T.. Chenery
S. G. Coe
Cc Dass
W. T. Delaplaine
K. W. Denman
G. J. Dominick
Sam M. Engelhart
Chas. S. Glassow
Deval L. Gwathmey
Fred N. Harrison
Amos L,. Herold
Carl Hinton
Samuel N. Hoshour
A. A. Houser
J. 2 ieawia
Sorsby Jemison
B. F. Kagey
J. To toy kes
W. E. Moreland
Oscar. R. Price
Elliott Vawter

1909-L
L. J. Boxley
R. Allen Brown
B. C. Catirey
C. I, Carey
Melvin E. Cruser
H: L. Hooker
James H. Price
Reuben Ragland
Daniel K. Sadler
Beirne Stedman

1910-A
Rayford W. Alley

James B. Baker
Joseph R. Blackburn
El. Baar

JZ RR: Chariton
Beach M. Chenoweth
LoBoDiutrow

G. R. Fortson

W. B. Fowlkes

Joe Gassman

W. W. Gwathmey
Wyatt C. Hedrick
P. A. Herscher
Leroy Hodges
Raymond Kenny
Albert McCown
Philip W. Murray

J: W. Rader

Charles P. Robinson
C. W. Streit

RG. Thach

Hugh M. Witt

B. £ Wood

1910-L
Hugh R. Hawthorne
Harry Lemley
Walter A. McDonald
Orange Richardson
W. Li Tilden
Philip Williams
M. B. Withers

1911-A
W. Camden Armentrout
J.P. Barclay
James M. Barker, Jr.
Brian Bell
EK. E. Brown
Lewis G. Cooper
Hery W. Dew
F. P. Guthrie
John G. Herndon, Jr.
A. Dana Hodgdon
LL. Humphreys
F. S. Johnson
J. G. Johnston
M. EU Kurth
Clements McMullen
James B. Noell
C. W. Tharpe

Brown D. Truslow

1911-L
Ben P. Ainsworth
George Chaney
Rosser J. Coke
Omer T.- Kaylor
J. Nevin Kilmer
Lewis S. Pendleton
Robert A. Russell
Herman A. Sacks
Luther G. Scott
J.T. Watson

1912-A
Robert R. Blake
H. S. Coffey
Lloyd R. Craighill
C. R. Dawley
Mason C. Deaver
H. A. Doss

D.. Wi. Barman

H. G. Fannin
Isadore Foreman
Elmo D. French
Tom Glasgow
Arlos J. Harbert

‘FE. Be biartison
John W. Heath

J. Oo Hodekin

W. N. Hodgkin
Charles T. Hopkins
J--Frank Key
Brown Lewis
Edward Lyons

EF. D. McClure
Allan McDowell
William M. Miller
E. R. Molesworth
Lee Ordeman

Dan Owen

}. &Piekens

Hy Potter

Paul A. Rockwell
Sidney T. Ruck
Frank R. Ruff

H. L. Saville

Otho Shuford
James Somerville, Jr.
William L. Webster
W. Graham Wood

1912-L

Bryan L,. Ballard
Robert C. Dow
Wayne Ely

Francis J; Heazel
Alonzo G. Lively
William J. Wilcox
Clayton E. Williams
Russell B. Wine
Damon G. Yerkes

1913-A

Paul C. Buford

John L. Crist

G. D. Davidson
Herman P. Davidson
Edward S. Delaplaine
Ben F. Fiery

Philip P. Gibson
Carter Glass, Jf.
William A. Hyman
Edison C. Jalonick
Edward W. Lee

Carl C. Moore

S. C. Rose
Alexander Sloan
Richard A. Smith

R. R. Witt

W. H. Womeldorf
Wm. A. Wright

1913-L

Harvey B. Apperson
Ryland G. Craft

C .E. Hunter

John G. Hutton
Simeon Hyde

Howard P. Macfarlane
Howard L. Robinson

1914-A

C. R. Avery
Houston Barclay
Henry Barker
Roger J. Bear
D.C. Buchanan
Lee R. Grabill, Jr.
Alex M. Hitz

R. P. Hobson
Sam Laughlin

A. W. McCain
Morris L. Masinter
V. M. Matthews
Francis P. Miller
Stuart Moore
Leon O’Quinn
Clarence L. Sager
Ray S. Smith
Jb YT porter

J. Clyde Whetzel
Walter J. Wilkins

1914-L

A. C. Buchanan
William L. Lovins
Harry Lewis Miller
C. H. Morrissett
Junius L. Powell
Ben D. Smith
Kenneth C. Whittle
Samuel Williams

1915-A

Robert P. Adams
L. S. Anderson

O. By Barker, |r.
Charles R. Beall
James E. Bear
Madison P. Coe

J. Carl Fisher
Richard W. Fowlkes
Frank B. Hayne
Sam Keller

Rupert Latture
George S. Morrison
William H. Smith
Howard C. Stuck
T. i. Stukes

C. M. Switzer

Paul C.-Fhomas

Ki Williams

1915-L

Arthur M. Birdsall
C. C. Chambers
Leon Harris
Joseph W. Hodges
W. Guy Laughon
Joe Milner
William Henry Oast
Kol Shite

isaac Di Saith

J. DT rmmble
Herman Ulmer

1916-A

Battle Bagley

A. L. Bennett
Lynch Christian
R. P. Hawkins, Jr.

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

—

Reuben A. Lewis

Harrison P. Magruder
G. Nelson

Russell S. Rhodes

Elwood Seal

Frank O. Steele

p. Easley Waggoner

Bruce F. Woodruff

1916-L
c, R. Brown, a;
Robert M. Curtis
Grady H. Forgy
Edmund Magers
eS. Marshall
B.S. McNeer
J. A. Oast
Paul R. Scott

1917-A
my. QO. Burtner
Jackson R. Collins
William J. Cox
J. M. Faulkner
Bob Gardner
Frank J. Gilliam
H. A. Jones
James A. Lee
Robert B. McDougle
Charles W. McNitt
mG. Paxton
Paul Pickens
Milton B. Rogers
Marion Sanders
eek, otribling, Jr.
T. Preston White
J. L. Williams
M. D. Williamson
G. R. Womeldorf
mK. Young

1917-L
Harry Campbell
Lafe Chafin
George W. Danielson
Gabriel de la Haba
& &. Durrance
i Rk. Hill
Gus Ottenheimer
Charles G. Peters
Herbert G. Peters

1918-A & L
James C. Ambler
R. M. Bear
A. B. Bowman
FE. V. Boyer
KE. D. Campbell
W. P. Daniel
H. C. Hearne
Fulton Hoge
Homer A. Holt
James J. Izard
A. S. Marx
John L,. McChord
p. H. Moreton, Jr.
M. W. Paxton, jr,
Otto Stumpf

Tancis Styles
Virgil J. Trotter, Jr.
Alex S. Watkins

1919-A& L

Samuel A. Anderson, Jr.

Sam H. Baker
Willie F. Barron
Leonard T. Brown
T. Dewey Davis

Jo Ro Faia

Edward L. Gladney, Jr.
Robert V. Ignico
Douglas E| Leckie
Giles G. Terry
Reid White, Jr.
John Witt

John H. Young

1920-A
J. B. Atkins
Ed. Bailey

Henry S. Baker, Jr.
Harry P. Burns

R. M. Cabell

James Waller Callison
Willis M. Everett

J. Glen Evins

James P. Hill

John W. Kern

“OB. Kievian

Howard McCain
Harry L. Moore
George S. Mueller
W... Fy: Parker

H. S. Powell
Holmes Rolston
Hope Stark
Thomas M. Stubbs
dis Bf rotrer

W. B. Wright

1920-L

L,. Berkeley Cox
John W. Drye
Pinkney Grissom
Eldon P. King
Martin W. Simmons
Walter Smith

1921-A

Gayle G. Armstrong
A. Milling Bernstein
John W. Bowyer
Wm. A. Gibbons
Homer E,. Henderson
R. M. Hutcheson
David D. Johnson
W. R. Knebelkamp
BH Long

John L. Patterson
Thomas Carson Penn
Frank M. Pollock
Sam Raines

William J. Rushton

1921-L

Carl 4 till

Roy J. Grimley
Thomas. xX. Parsons
William M. Tuck
R. C. Wood

B. Hunter Barrow

John Bell
D. B. Dawson

1922-A

Robert M. Bear
Guy Campbell
James A. Cranford
F. J. Daughtrey
Garla.id Gray

Bob Howerton
Verbon EF. Kemp
W*liam F. McCann
L. W. Milbourne
Troy Musselwhite
We Patten
Dewey A. Reynolds
RoE Snerrill
Huston St. Clair
Wilfred Webb
W.A. Williams, Jr.

1922-L
W. E. Neblett

Joe Silverstein

1923-A

G. E. Berson
Everett W. Cummings
L. Douglas Danforth

Melville Irving Dunn, Jr.

J homas J.:E lis

(cE ar arris
R-chard Jordan

dis sone

George C. Mason
David H. Matson
French B. McKnight
PB. £2 Sattes

DRS Siively

1923-L

Bob. Carr

Cy Hall

George T. Holbrook
A. L. McCarthy
Lydell Peck

1924-A

J. L. Allgood

J. D.. Bassett, Jr.
John D.:-Ts Bold
Barry D. Brooks
R. B. Campbell
CF. Carlson

J. A. Davenport, Jr.
Wyatt French

W. S. Gay

Reed Graves

John F. Hendon

J. W. Hopkins
Edwin H. Howard
Otis Howe

18, tink fe,
Thomas F. Jackson
W. P. -Kirknvan
James V. Logan
William C. McKnight
Joe G. McMath

J. MzB.. Mattox
George Mercke

Turner Merritt

W. P. Mixon
Charles H. Phillips
Francis W. Plowman
LD, “Pointer; Jr.
Frank Reeves

H. O. Shropshire
W. Slater
George S. Spragins
Charles J. Stone
John N. Thomas
Norfleet Turner

1924-L

Charles A. Cohen
Thomas P. Duncan
John W. Greene
John M. Lovelace
Walter H. Scott

H. L. Shuey
Randolph H. Whittle

1925-A

C. T. Altfather

Earl Topley Andrews
Joseph E. Birnie

E. W. Brown

C41. Burton

R. L. Claterbaugh
Elmore Dufour
Bruce F. Gannaway
R. F. Goodrich

Tom M. Harmon
Chas. S. Heilig

J. M. Holt

Marvin F. Hummer
V. J. Krienbaum

M. C. Langhorne
John-F: McVay

E. S. Mattingly

C. T. Munholland
H. Edward Rietze, Jr.
Roy Slack

Allan P. Sloan
Harold St. John
William L. Woolfolk

1925-L

M. F. Baugher
George T. Clark
Luther L. Copley
Clarence H. Hinkle
W. A. McRitchie
J. Morrison; Jr.
jonn S- Strahorn, Tr,
George S. Wilson

1926-A

E.. G. Barker

A. R. Coleman
Edward A. Dodd
Tom Foley
Russell L. Gordon
C. Carter Lee
Henry Lee

Co We Lowry

Dan S. MacCorkle
Emmett W. MacCorkle
John T. Martin

Edwin A. Morris
Stanley Osserman
J. Robert Smith
Cry Waltin
to. Vice

Burke Williamson

1926-L

W. Hill Brown, Jr.
Ralph Masinter
James Kay Thomas
W.E. Tilson

Earl Valentine
Basil Watkins

1927-A

L. R. Bowker

Leigh Bulluck
George FE. Burks
Peter W. Coffield, Jr.
Charles j.:‘Crockett, Jr.
CT. Davis

Kenneth Durham

W. E.. Gage

Henry A. Ingalls, Jr.
Joe 'L. Lanier

Luther G. McKinnon
Alex S. Moffett

J. Preston Moore
RoW. Orchard
William M. Pope

J. C. Wilbourn

1927-L

T. A. Graves

George Maynard, Jr.
John Strickler
George D. Varney
Rhea Whitley

1928-A

J. W. Alderson, Jr.
Lester A. Brown
William D. Dickerson
Charles H. Lindfors
WI. Attia

Edward H. Miller

Tom Torrey

1928-L

George S. Arnold
ToBe Bryant, Jr.
Oldham Clarke

Ro OW Jordan
Jee aie pater
1929-A

Robert S. Bacon

John E. Bailey

Te Ge Berry

William T. Black
Peyton Bush

R. M. Davis

Ben Eastwood

George H. Goodwin
William B. Harrington
William M. Hinton
Robert B. Lee

E. F. Madison

A: I,.. McCardell, Jr.
Frank W. McCluer, Jr.

Charles D. Mercke
Paul S. Mertins
Allen Morgan

Francis: Troost: Parker, fr.

Walter N. Pharr
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
Irwin T. Sanders
James M. Shackelford
J. Miller Sherwood
O. Norris Smith

Li €..Spengier

Harry S. Stephens

P. C. Whitlock
Walter H. Wilcox

George M. Wright, Jr.

1929-L

Philip R. Becker
Sam Lancaster
John Bell Towill

1930-A

W. Taylor Alsop
Joe Broadus

bee Brown Lit
Robert E. Clapp, Jr.
FO tagk, Jr.
George B. Craddock
R. We Davis; Jr.
Frank O. Evans
W. Van Gilbert
Edward S. Graves
James N. Hess
Selden Humphreys
Herbert G. Jahncke
Murrel Kaplan
Kenneth Keil

C. EK. Kennemer, Jr.
M. Philo Lindsay
John PP. lynch

R. V. May

James B. Merrick
David H. Moreton
S. R. Nichols

4 Aj Paaiter
Mosby Perrow, Jr.
Merle Suter

1930-L

Leonard H. Davis
F. L. Shipman
B: L. Rawlins, .Jr.

1931-A

Ben M. Ayars

W.- Po Ballard
Frank T. Bready
Leonard Borland
Charles Bowes
Lawton M. Calhoun
Rafael deArellano
Graham Gillock
Elbert Hall

Paul A. Horner
Eugene Johnson
Bef. ambert

Joe Magee

Duncan McConnell
John O. McNeel

C. H. McMillan

Gilmore Nunn
Albert G. Peery, Jr.
W. V;. Rucker

Dan Sherby
William H. Tallyn
Walter F. Williams

1931-L

Walter E. Hoffman
James B. Martin
John C. Smith
Manuel M. Weinberg

1932-A

M. W. Adelson
Everett N. Cross
David F. Crossen
W. C. Edwards
Collas G. Harris

1, \. Farts

Robert K. Hoadley
William.D. Hoyt, Jr.
Kemper Jennings
John Ladd

Charles E. Lone, Jr.
Rb. McKanney
George Morse
William C. Mulligan
R. O. Parmalee
James S. Pollak
Lawrence J. Roose
Ran T.. Shields, Jr.
Carl C,. Tucker

J. Ke Vinson

*Leigh Williams
Sherwood Wise
John W. Zimmerman

1932-L

Paul Holstein
Henry MacKenzie
John Hill Morgan
D:\J. Savage
James D. Sparks
Charles A. Wood

1933-A

Henry F. Arnold
Irving Buck Bricken
W. J.'Brooks,; fr.
Richard A. Caldwell
James W. Cantley
Edwin Wilson Chittum
Joseph C. Conner

M. Hoge Crighton, Jr.

1933-A

John A. Culley
Ted. Oar oy,
Todd DeVan

H. D. Foote, Jr.
G. H. Harper
Eben Jackson
Robert Kaplan
Claude LaVarre
Ernest L. McLellan
G. W. Musser
Peel Rivers

J. Rucker Ryland
Wallace Sheffield

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Robert R. Smith

A. D. Symonds

W. F. Symonds
Luther F. Violett, Jr.
J: Be: Wrarton,.Jr.

1933-L

D. K. Crawford
Bernard B. Davis
Jerome Frampton, Jr.
W. F. Stone

Cavett Robert

1934-A

Henry FE. Allen
Darby Betts —

Ruge P. DeVan

F. O. Funkhouser
Richard W. Grafton
Knight Laird
Harvey Pride
Robert Ruth

1934-L
Thomas D. Anderson
Layne H. Ford
Taylor Jones

1935-A

Rolland H. Berry
Anderson Browne

E,. W. Chappell, Jr.
Wm. A. Cover
Leighton P. Everhart

Norman S. Fitzhugh, Jr.

Loyal P. Gassman
Gilbert C. McKown
Gus Morgan

H: . Ravenhorst
John D. Spohr

J. S. Woods

1935-L

Rudolph Bumgardner
James D. Finley, II
Meredith Graham
Thomas C. Snum

1936-A

Edward S. Boze
Donald Clark
H. O. Danielson
Alfred Kahn, Jr.
Kenneth Lane
Bruce Lanier

C. A. Sweet
1937-A

Jim Andrews

Wood Bouldin
Norman I[ler
Walter G. Lehr, Jr.
C. Arnold Matthews
Osgood Peckham
R. M. Peek, Jr.

Ty ¥ Ralpus

Lamar Rau

Kelley E. Reed
George E.. Sillik, Jr.
Souther F. Tompkins
Charles Walker

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

C. Price Berryman
James M. Davidson, Jr.
Wm. M. Daniel

Frank Dixon

Frank Jones, Jr.

G. S. Kemp, Jr.

James A. McClure
Harry M. Philpott

Ee. Av Sartor, |r.

‘lip W einsier
a Cc, Wilbur, Jr.
Fielden Woodward

1937-L
James -. ja
Amos Bolen
Richard N. Brooke
Stanley C. Higgins
I. M. Scott

1938-A
Arthur H. Alexander
William B. Bagbey

1938-L

D. W. Wilkinson, Jr.
William L. Wilson

1939-A

Alexander Blain, III
Robert A. Brown

R: T. Crawiord

John J. Davis, yt.
Sherwin B. French
Birnie Harper, Jr.
Richard F. Holden
Donald B. Houghton
Robert S. Hoyt
Ferdinand Peter Maupai
ROE. Milhean. fr,
Wm. King Self

Ralph H. Smith
Allen T. Snyder
M.. J. Swan; fr.

1939-L

P. M. Grabill

Edgar Lewis Smith
Non-Graduates

Hal Watterson
Charles G. Hooks
John P. Darnall, III

 

* Deceased

Class Notes

(Continued from page 28)

Harry E. REDENBAUGH™ is attending the Graduate
School of Business Administration, Harvard University.
His home address is 943 Milton Street, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania.

A. P. STuART is a Graduate Assistant in Chemistry,
Department of Chemistry, University of Delaware. He
expects to receive his M.S. in June, 1941.

RicHARD LAYMAN HOWELL is at present on leave of
absence pending training and duty in the United States
Navy as Ensign D.V.G., having just completed a train-
ing cruise to Panama on U.S.S. New York.

CHARLES R. Hart was married November 30, 1940,
to Harriet Anne Pierce of Manchester, Vermont, and Mt.
Holyoke College. He is with the Johns-Manville Corpo-
ration, 20 Kast 42nd Street, New York City.

1940

WittiAmM FRaNcIs SAUNDERS was married to Ann
Sutherland Price, October 5, 1940. He is with Dunning-
ton, Bartholow & Miller, 1
Wall Street, New York.

Ropert R. Davis is a
Second Lieutenant, Company _
G, 2nd Ba. 8th Marines, Ma-
tine Base, San Diego, Cali-
fornia,

Rosert Harotp Gappy
iS now a Flying Cadet, U. S.
Army Air Corps, Randolph
Field, Company A, San An-
tonio, Texas.

Frank Smoor BEAZLIE,
JR, ls in the Medical School,
liversity of Virginia.

 

Walter Hopkins ’14, Paul Buford ’13, Roger Bear ’14, W. :
Carroll Mead ’25, Omicron Delta Kappa initiates of 1940 Pennsylvania.

Leo REINARTZ 1s at the Wharton School of Business,
University of Pennsylvania.

FRED PEDDEMAN is studying for his M.D. at Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia.

JoHN Bomar CLEVELAND has been serving since
August as Second Lieutenant U. S. Marine Corps Re-
serves, on active duty for indefinite period with the Fleet
Marine Force in Cuba.

Tuomas Kennepy He¥tm is studying Law at the
University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky.

JosEpH Hunver is Assistant Record Engineer and
has charge of one of the departments of the manufacture
of the Quick Current Hunter-Hartman Rapid Battery
Charger, St. Louis, Missouri.

Bitt KEaAp is working for his Master’s Degree at the
University of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM ParKER NEAL is now attending the General
Theological Seminary, and
gives his New York address
as 280 Burns Street, Forest
Hills, Long Island.

JAMES H. BIerer is a stu-
dent in the Harvard Gradu-
ate School of Business Ad-
ministration. His home is in
Waban, Massachusetts.

Joun Winn Watson,
J&., is with the Armstrong

Cork Go. 2213-17. W. aSlen=
wood Avenue, Philadelphia,

[ 33 |

 

 

