 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Have You Replied to Your Class Agent's Letter ’

When we received a copy of the following letter which was sent by the Charleston, Wes,

Virginia, Alumni Chapter to all of its members, we thought it was such an excellent

statement of the Alumni Fund situation that we are reproducing it here.

 

 

Washington and Lee Alumni Assoriation
CHARLESTON, W. VA.

DEAR W. and L. ALUMNUS:

 

That the United States is in a war is a fact. However—the fact that your own
University is waging a war of its own for survival may raise some question in your
mind. If, after you have read this letter and that of your Class Agent’s, you are
only partially aware of the seriousness of this situation, our purpose will have been
more than fulfilled.

Since Pearl Harbor, students of the University have responded to the call to
arms like many other loyal Americans and as a result there are some hundred fewer
students at the University at this early date. No one need be told that even this
comparatively small number has left a considerable dent in the University. Financial-
ly speaking, this means that the University is operating on approximately $30,000
less than it ordinarily does. That it will lose more students next year and the year
after is only a well presumed fact.

W. and L. is a privately owned and operated school, as you all know, and the
University has always relied heavily on its investments from endowment funds to
operate as a first-class school. That this income will diminish, no one doubts in times
such as these.

Irom these roughly assembled facts, and these are only a few of many, you can
readily see that W. and L. is in for an uphill fight, and on the basis of these facts
alone, we urge and request you to sit down today and respond to your Class Agent's
letter, sending him what little assistance you can. Your University needs your help
more than ever. We feel you deeply respect the part W. and L. has played in your
life and that you would more than welcome this opportunity to express your genuine
appreciation. This is your opportunity. Sit down today and answer your Class
Agent’s letter and at the same time lend what financial aid you feel possible to the
University. Whether you can aid financially or not, answer your Class Agent’s
letter today. Sibeedly pute

Joun M. Capito, President
Charleston Alumni Chapter

Fund Comittee:

Brown TRUSLOW
JAY SCHWABE
Joun H. THomas

 

 

 

 

 

qua

Appalachian

G. W. Summerson, Bristol, Va.
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Alex M. Hitz, C. and S. Bank Building
Baltimore, Maryland

John C. Hoover, 4428 Marble Hall Road
Birmingham, Alabama

John F. Hendon, 1631 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John Capito, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

C. Ro Avery
Chicago, Illinois

W. R. Allen, 135 S. LaSalle Street
Cincinnati, Ohio

Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina

John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

Carl V.. Harris
Cumberland Valley

Omer Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

W. R. Taylor, 7 Arnette Apartments
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barns, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Cc. Lynch Christian
Louisville, Kentucky

Fielden Woodward, Ky. Home Life Bldg.

Memphis, Tennessee

Stewart Buxton, Cotton Exchange Bldg.
New York, New York

Roy Grimley, Ridgewood, N. J.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

John Stemmons, Dallas, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Norwood Band, Germantown
Piedmont

A. Stacey Gifford, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Cc. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. Dewey Davis
Roanoke, Virginia

E. H. Ould, Prospect Hills
Rockingham County

Frank Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California,

Los Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Wm. Edwards, D’Arcy Adv. Co.
Tri-State

George W. Keller, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper aternce

. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.

Brian Bell, Star Building

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

$2.50 a Year
Vol. XVII MAY, 1942 No. 4
Beno Fe Harry K. (Cv) Younc, 1917
Managing Editor....GEORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON
®
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Present Joun C. Morrison, 1925
Secretary as Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
d PCOSUrer. 8. ok Dr. Reiw Waites, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carrot Mgap, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CuEenery, 1909
R. G. Waurrtte, 1924
Rocer Bear, 1914

 

About Our Covers

The front cover this time shows what is beginning
to be called the “back campus.” This part of our
grounds has always been here of course, but changes
of the past few years have given it an entirely new
appearance.

The most striking of the changes is obviously the
remodeling of the old library whose familiar dome has
been replaced by a facade more in keeping with the
rest of our architecture. The back of Newcomb Hall,
visible at the left, is not quite the same as it used to
be. Reid Hall remains unchanged at the right.

Looking back from the point where our photog-
rapher stood are the printing shop (formerly the
power house, now removed to the other side of Woods
Creek) and the Chemistry Building. Opposite them,
across a pleasant strip of lawn and trees are the new
Law building and the back of the main building. It is
possible that some day this part of the campus will
be almost as famous as the rest, since the view to-
wards House Mountain can and ought to be fully
exploited.

The picture was taken by William S. Latz, ’43.

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

We Do Our Part

(Preface to the Annual Report of the President)

Ak HIS war is the chief and the startling fact of our dis-

mal day, but war 1s the recurrence of an old chapter in
the story of Washington and Lee. Over and over again,
during the nineteen decades of the institution’s life, the
bugles of a national involvement have
sounded, near to us or afar. It is not on
record that the school ever failed to prove

responsive.

‘Today those bugles blare again, and
they blare throughout the world. On every
continent and on every sea and in the
remote quarters of the measureless blue,
the call to combat sounds. Whatever else
be said of this struggle, its dimensions ex-
ceed anything in the history of America.
It is our largest war and it 1s our costliest
war. Issues at stake are the most funda-
mental known to humanity ; and the dura-
tion of this war is the extent of time required to settle de-

cisively those issues.

It is a war which makes not only a complete call upon
national man-power but also a demand for the most
swiftly and adequately trained competences of that man-

power.

Washington and Lee is rooted in two great convic-
tions, adherence to the American ideal of social organiza-
tion, adherence to the Christian ideal of life. Disloyalty
to either of these, our heritages, would terminate the
reason for our existence as an institution of learning or

a center of influence.

Since it is these ideals that ultimately are threatened,

 

this University cannot be indifferent to the deeper impli-
cations of its duty. Every activity and every person op
our campus now moves in the shadow of this war. It is,
of course, a matter of deep regret that the world has
found no better way than war to order its
problems ; and it is a matter of wild regret
that these boys of ours must go immedj-
ately into this brutal conflict, which is not
of their making. But if our country is
in peril, Washington and [ee must have

its part in the campaign.

It comforts me to recall—and you
will allow me to remind you—that in the
confused and somewhat aimless years of
the last decade, when on many campuses
of our country there were the bewildered
groups of students organized into little
clubs that would now be called “subver-
sive,” there was not only no such group on this campus,
there was not even a student of that disposition, so far as
I ever knew. When these little clubs, or similar organiza-
tions, were seeking to organize student ‘‘strikes,’’ a pro-
test in effect against legally constituted authority, there
was not only no such strike on this campus, there was not

even a suggestion of such a strike that I ever heard.

There was no fanfare then and there is no stage play
now; but General Lee’s school has sustained its convic-

tions and now it would express its deep determination.

ve @34-< fm. *

President

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Colonnade and How It Grew

By SipnEy ISENBERG, *42

(Editor's Note: The following article on the
history of our principal buildings was written as
a term paper for Art 201, a course in the history of
art taught by Colonel T. A. E. Mosely. We are pub-
lishing it because we are sure that many alumni will
find the story fascinating. Though we have not both-
ered with footnotes, it should be acknowledged that
much of the material comes directly from the WaAsH-
INGTON AND LEE HistorICAL PAPERS.)

 

os DEO, it looks like an American college!” Thus ex-
claimed William Stevens, noted traveller and au-
thor, after viewing the Washington and Lee University

ee

campus. “Fortunately,” he continues, “ no well-meaning
millionaire has come this way to cumber the ground with
imitation English perpendicular towers, mullioned win-
dows and fan vaulting. Perhaps some day American col-
lege presidents will wake up to the fact that it 1s not neces-
sary or even desirable that every campus be made to
look like a corner of Oxford University.” An English-
man reiterates what Mr. Stevens says: “If this scene
were set down in the
middle of Europe the
whole continent would
flock to see it.”

Behind the facade of
these colonnaded  struc-
tures standing mayestt-
cally in military align-
ment along the crest of
a slope, the soil of which
has forever. Deen . €n-
riched by the footsteps
of the countless famous
personages who have
trod thereupon, is a story
steeped with all that is
characteristic of Vir-
ginia, the old South, and
The

mag-

colonial America.

tale is. nich. and

netic, and heart-warm-
ing. The individual con-

struction, the gradual

development of harmony, and the final unification of
these dissimilar edifices into a pleasing, homogeneous
group possessing architectural simplicity and dignity 1s
analagous to the corresponding periods of growth
through which the nation passed; and it is not at all sur-
prising that the histories of the two institutions are in
many respects almost parallel.

Though the germ of the University has been traced
as far back as the first half of the eighteenth century, it
was not until shortly after the turn of the succeeding cen-
tury that the present site came to be occupied, and only
then after fire had destroyed the former building. The
new site was the property of Andrew Alexander, Esq.,
and his land adjoined both the old site and the town. ‘The
trustees of the embryo academy accepted his offer, and
in exchange for his house (a plain, two-story dwelling
which stood where the president's house now stands) and
two acres of land by the town, he received the old site
with its remaining buildings, and then sold to the academy
an additional thirty acres of land at the rate of sixty dol-
lars per acre. The trustees were now ready to build. Con-

fronted then as they have always been even down to the

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

present day with the problem of limited financial re-
sources, the board planned their construction program to
obtain the most suitable and useful type of structure for
the smallest amount of money possible. Economy has
forever been their watchword.

The plan called for the erection of three buildings—
a large central edifice and two wings. It was determined
to erect the wings first and to postpone the main build-
ing till a more convenient season. Construction was be-
gun in the spring of 1803, about six months after the
old building had burned, and the new buildings were
ready for occupancy in 1804. The new structures were
well proportioned and fronted on the line still adhered to
as the front line of the present buildings. These wings
were about sixty yards apart, and as well as I can ascer-
tain, the East wing occupied the site where now stands
Tucker Hall, and Newcomb Hall rests on the site of the
West wing. Each building was seventy-five feet long by
twenty feet wide and two stories high, with two cross
passages and four rooms in each story. They were exact
duplicates both within and without except for the merg-
ing of two upstairs rooms of the East building into one
for an assembly room or Chapel as it was called. Al-
together there were fourteen rooms which accommodated
the students and tutors as classrooms and dormitories for
a period of twenty years.

The trustees named the two buildings Graham Hall
(the eastern) and Union Hall (the western). They were
of brick from the foundation and were hastily construct-
ed. ‘The brick and the masonry were of bad quality, and
walls near the ground began to decay within ten years,
requiring repairs to sustain them. Within two decades at-
ter they were built they became so dilapidated as to
threaten speedy ruin, and by the aid of battering rams
made from the joists of the buildings, the students suc-
ceeded in demolishing the structures after the center
building was completed some years later.

Realizing the decadent condition of these buildings,
and their inadequacy to accommodate an enlarged stu-
dent population, the trustees began in 1821 to consider
the erection of the center building. John Jordan, a local
“master builder,’ submitted the lowest bid for its con-
struction and it amounted to $9000, a sum more than
double the apparent resources applicable to this purpose.
A Mr. Samuel Darst is mentioned as a partner of Mr.
Jordan, but there is no indication as to who might have
designed the building.

Jordan’s bid was accepted on the twelfth of October,
1822, and construction was ordered to begin at once.
The cornerstone for the new building was laid in the
spring of 1824, the occasion being celebrated by a re-

eee

markable ceremony, devised and executed by “Jockey”
Robinson, friend and benefactor of the institution, J]
must digress momentarily to recount a part of the cere
mony which historically, if not rightfully, is as much a
part of the building as are the columns, not to mention
the humorous element connected with it:

“For the laying of the cornerstone of this building
‘Jockey’ Robinson had sent from his Hart's Bottom
place a barrel of his fifteen year old whiskey. Robinson
was the only man who would have been indulged in a
Bacchanalian libation to Pallas, nor even would he have
been permitted, had it been foreseen that the offering
would be converted into a Circean potation. The barrel
cointained forty gallons of the finest whiskey that the
old Rockbridge sun ever shone upon. This was set up on
the campus and, though the authorities looked on with
some disfavor, Robinson was too good a friend of the
college to be treated with discourtesy. Some of the trus-
tees and faculty members did not partake, but among the
spectators was a large contingent of the ‘tight brigade.’
Mr. Robinson inaugurated the ceremony of leading of-
ficials of the college to the barrel. For a time, some cour-
tesy, in the order of approach, was observed, but the
thirsty multitude soon broke through all restraint and,
armed with pitchers, dippers, buckets, gourds and basins,
some of them more handy than nice, rushed for the barrel
and soon gave a glorious exhibition of what free whiskey
can do. The agonies of thirst impelled them to the onset,
which was irresistible. Before they could complete the
process, the barrel was upset and the wreckage about the
place, human and inanimate, suggested a battle-field. Rob-
inson was much embarrased, for he had intended the
gift for the elite and not for the rabble. His estimate of
the capacity of the elite was most generous.”

The building itself was completed and occupied in
the autumn of 1824. Its dimensions are given as fifty by
one hundred feet, ascending for a height of three stories.
The columns in front according to the original plans were
intended to be square and very large, but round columns
were submitted for them, no reason being given for the
change. At first there was a second story porch in front,
but it was removed after a few years on account of noise.
The interior, but for a few recent changes, was much the
same as it appears today. The hall or Chapel, as it was
called by the professors, occupied the entire front of the
building on the second floor as far back as the stairways;
and in height included the third story. Across the north-
east end of the room extended a stage, and at the opposite
end was a gallery which was entered from the third floor.
The cupola on top of which “Old George” stands was
not originally present, but was to be a later addition. Theit

[4 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

BT if

——— 1

 

 

= ae
cae aM

: oi a fi ea os

 

 

subsequent appearance will be revealed in detail shortly.
The building was described as a “handsome, well propor-
tioned structure, a Maison Quarre, like the state capitol,
but without a high basement.”

It was 1831 before another building was erected
along the front line. The growth and enlargement of the
library and museum, the chemistry and physical depart-
ments necessitated a new building which would suit the
demands of these growing departments. It was erected
southwest of the central edifice and for a time was called
the Lyceum though generally referred to as the Science
building. It now bears the name of Payne Hall. It was
originally intended to be two stories in height, but upon
the recommendation of the building committee it was
raised another story. The upper story had quite a low
ceiling which eventually was arched, and the portico now
attached to it is also of later date. A large railed platform
was placed on top of the hipped roof. For more than one
hundred years the interior plan remained with a large
and small room on each floor and a common stairway at
the east corner. This condition was altered slightly dur-
ing the huge remodelling program of 1936. Though I
have found no records to verify this statement, I have
observed from photographs that the west side of this

building was a solid brick wall; the windows have since
been added.

The first structures which were built in 1803-4 were
finally razed to the ground during 1835-6. Two low one-
story brick buildings were erected on their sites. Hach
had rather small lodging rooms in a straight row, all
opening on the pavement. “No one claimed for them any
architectural beauty, but it was thought they possessed
some advantages over more elaborate structures. First,
they gave twelve lodging rooms at minimum cost. Sec;
ond, the lack of porticoes, halls and passages was a great
protection against disturbing noises. Third, the plan of
having the only windows in the rear, and only transom
lights in front, shut off the distracting sights of the pave-
ment, the front lawn, and the town. And -fourth, each
building being a plain rectangle without projections and
without void spaces within, afforded but little cover for
the skulking mischief maker.”

There was no important building program carried out
for the next five years. Not until 1840 were any new
buidings determined upon. At that time a maximum of
$8000 was provided for such purposes, but within less
than two years this amount was temporarily increased al-
most three-fold to $22,000. I say temporarily because

[>|

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the trustees and particularly the treasurer of the Col-
lege during this period were no different from their pre-
decessors, and they too held firmly to the purse strings.
When the board became deadlocked on the question of
building, the president of the College, recognizing the
necessity for additional accommodations for professors
and students, cast the vote which decided the issue. He
explained that he was willing to leave the appropriation
at $8,000, but was urged to more liberal provisions by
professors who offered to build houses for themselves on
College Hill (now University Place) and allow the board
to return the money in six annual installments. The board
agreed to three houses to cost “not exceeding $3,500 each,
including outbuildings and enclosures and it was ordered
that a fourth dwelling should be erected for the use of the
president.”

It does not appear that any professional architect was
employed to plan the buildings or supervise their erec-
tion—professors being entitled to the credit of planning
the president’s and professor’s houses. These are the
four dwellings grouped anterior to the front line of the
main buildings, two on the East side, and two to the
West. It cannot pass unnoticed that the gentlemen com-
prising this committee, though not architects, were pos-
sessed with some knowledge of the Greek classical style.
This knowledge combined with their appreciation for pro-
portion and symmetry is evidenced by the perfect balance
these houses create with respect to the academic buildings
and themselves. That the homes on the ends have flattened
roofs, the two next to them pointed roofs, forming as it
were uplifting lines which lead the eye to the academic
buildings—a bit of excellent artistic subtlety—is a fact
which is not known as a conscious effort on the part of
the committee.

In addition to the four dwellings the board decided to
erect a three-story building east of the center one, and
it was to correspond with the Science building on the
west in exterior shape and dimensions. Two connecting
buildings two stories high were to be erected between the
two three-story buildings and the center building. Here
again no architect was employed, but the buildings were
erected under the supervision of a faculty committee
which designed them for dormitories; but subsequently
the one next to the Science building was changed into the
Chapel. The new three-story building and its connecting
wing was, like the Science building, to have a front of
53 feet in width and a depth of 33 feet and to stand 49
feet from the center building, the wings to occupy the in-
tervening spaces. This gave a Chapel on the west side of
49 feet front, 30 feet depth in the clear and the clear

a

height of two stories, with a gallery on the front wall
reached by an inside stairway.

Alexander and Gibbons were directed to construct
the buildings in 1841 and to have them ready for occu-
pancy by the following year. The bricks to be used in the
construction were to be made on the College grounds, In
connection with the new buildings, a portico was ordered
prefixed to the Science building and a cupola was erected
on the top of the central building. The figure of George
Washington on the cupola was sculptured by a Lexing-
ton carpenter, Mathew Kahle, out of a big hardwood log
that he found in the James River in 1840, but four years
elapsed before it was hoisted to its place of honor, A
prodigious thickness of paint over the original wood now
preserves “Old George”’ for all time.

Someone on this faculty committee, I strongly sus-
pect, was beginning to recognize the necessity for an
architectural unity in the buildings, and the addition of
the portico to the Science building was the first apparent
step forward in an attempt to bring about some form of
harmony. How and why the use of round columns flanked
on either side by square ones was adopted, | have not
been able to discover. It has been brought to my at-
tention that the decoration on the New Providence
Church at Brownsburg, the Church which gave rise to
Augusta Academy, the germ of the University, makes
use of this scheme. Though the present church was erect-
ed in 1859, after the University colonnade was built, there
were other structures which preceded this one, but any
attempt to prove this statement has failed because of the
lack of supporting evidence. It is a fact that the two in-
stitutions are related in several respects, but to create a
direct association between these two schemes is, to me,
mere speculation.

This group of buildings just constructed was admired
and thought to be especially suitable for college architec-
ture. After their completion the board ordered that they
should be designated accordingly :

The center building to be called the Graham building.

The west square edifice to be called the Robinson.

The east square edifice to be called the Cincinnati.

The edifice between Graham and the Cincinnati the
Baxter building, and that between Graham and Robin-
son the Chapel.

But these names were no more recognized by the stu-
dents than those given the new buildings in 1804. The
boys dubbed the new three-story building Paradise, while
the wing connecting it with the center building was called
Cat Tail. The three story building on the west side (cot-
responding to Paradise on the east) was dubbed Purga-
tory.

[ 6]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Wee ae

Newcomb Hall was the next structure to be added to
the buildings along the front line. Its erection was made
possible by the donation of Mrs. Josephine Louise New-
comb, in memory of her husband, Warren Newcomb, a
patron of the University. For a time her gift remained in
anonymity and the structure was known only as the Li-
brary building, since the library was to be housed here. A
Mr. Nielson was the architect and a Mr. Leyburn was
the contractor. An issue of the Southern Collegian bear-
ing the date 1882 describes the building as “more than
useful” and “greatly ornamental” to the campus. The
building is three stories high, and the library was to be
housed in the rear; it was only one and one-half stories
in height. It was lighted on the third floor by a sky light.
A very elaborate moulding on the outside seems to have
struck the editors with much “awe.” There were two
such mouldings, one at the top and another at the center,
and the editors felt that they added greatly to the appear-
ance. As originally constructed the building did not have
columns, but some years after its erection, Professor
D. C. Humphreys, head of the engineering department,
felt that it should be brought into harmony with the other
buildings, and so undertook the job to erect a portico
supported by four columns. Why he should have chosen
four large round columns in place of the six smaller ones
which supported the portico in front of the center build-
ing is not known to me. In 1936 the whole interior of this
building was renovated and rearranged.

On the northeast corner of the front line where once
stood one of the first two structures erected in 1804,
Tucker Hall was built in 1900. It was the third edifice
to be erected upon this site. This building was to be the
home of the law school and was to serve as a memorial
to John Randolph Tucker, long identified with the Uni-
versity. The Calyx of 1899 states that the walls of the
building were of broken-ranged ashlar masonry of the
beautiful local grey limestone, and it was told to me that
a special stipulation was made for it to be built of “en-
during Rockbridge limestone.” The building, two stories
in height, was advanced some thirty feet in front of the
present front line and occupied a ground space of 96 by
80 feet. The structure was typically Romanesque.

Dr. Harry Campbell once remarked to a friend who
has passed it on to me: “Horrible as it was it served its
purpose as it showed the folly of lack of architectural
planning.” In 1934 it caught fire and burned to the
ground. 3

Old Tucker Hall was replaced by a modern three
story structure, designed and patterned after Newcomb
Hall in its exterior appearance. It was restored to the
proper front line and brought into complete architectural

accord with the other buildings. With the restoration of
Tucker Hall, absolute unity was at last achieved after one
hundred and twelve years.

“So slow the growth of what is excellent

9
‘

So hard to attain perfection in this nether world

There have been other structures erected on the cam-
pus in addition to these buildings, but their history is not
related to the front group. Some of them are famous in
their own right, especially Lee Memorial Chapel, de-
signed by General Robert E. Lee himself. The old
Carnegie Library with its dome has left an interesting
tale behind it, and eventually I desire to incorporate these
accounts into this paper.

It has been said that a group of buildings on a properly
designed campus has an art and a life value, which the
students will assimilate unconsciously. Whosoever penned
these words must have been an alumnus of this institution,
though I really do not know. For surely no visitor ever
gazed upon this sight that he did not carry away a last-
ing impression, and certainly no student ever walked
through these columns that from that day on his life did
not feel their influence.

 

A. Les REEsEr, 36, is at present a captain with the
Coast Artillery. Prior to his induction in April, 1941, he
had been employed by the Minnesota Mining and Manu-
facturing Company in Philadelphia, and Syracuse, New
York. He is still single and is anxious to exchange news
with his friends. |

 

James Lorp, Jr., °33, of Brooklyn, New York, is
stationed at Newport, Rhode Island, and is an acting yeo-
man for Chaplain Karl Knudsen. He goes to Photog-
raphy School in Pensacola, Florida, in about two months.

 

Rosee? E.. HOLLAND,
Jr., is now an ensign in the
United States Naval Re-
serve Aviation. He took his
elimination flight training
at Anacostia, D. C.,and was
then transferred to the U.S.
Naval Air Station, Miami,
Florida, where he received
his Navy Wings and Com-
mission. He has been as-
signed to the Atlantic Fleet
for further duty.

 

[4]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Partial List of Alumni in Service

(NOTE: This list is incomplete only because of
our lack of information. Since we are anxious to add
the names of other men in the service, we should
greatly appreciate hearing about them from our sub-
scribers. At a later date we hope to print a supple-
ment to the present note. The following symbols
have been used to designate the branches of the com-
bat forces: A—Army; N—Navy; C. G—Coast
Guard; M—Marine Corps;—A. M. C—Army
Medical Corps; A. A. C—Army Air Corps; N. A.
C—Naval Air Corps; N. R—WNaval Reserve; P.
O. W.—Prisoner of War; A. S. C—Army Signal
Corps; Art—Artillery; RCAF—Royal Canadian
Air Force; A. T. C—Army Tank Corps.)

 

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)
Abere, Walt-Seanian; . Gi..oiaeess Washington, D. C.
Ackerivy;: VW. WW = apt. Asics cca ee Washington, D. C.
Atemancdern (Mc Brie, Gen. Aoki e a
Alexander, Samual—E,nsion, Ni.ccieccccscseeccsscecees Richmond, Va.
Peo SON eed VE. Ai eer ee Port Brace, N.C.
Pres Sat SIS, Niles ines ee Port Schuyler, N.Y,
Ames, William—Petty Officer, M............. Wegicashington, D.C.
Popcorn ach. TVA IN sesh cenccaccencaetdecsoevvanas New Orleans, La.
Bencras. Fueh G., Ira, A. A. Coe i ea ee
ete Ober e LN ih gcse ei Miami, Fla
Aven. AV iia, Nodes iti nn Boston, Mass
Avera Laptotig— Lot) Fai cies ecient San. Francisco, . Calif.
Pre | VV EE A a occas ce epee een tices aes California
Dates, biwatdeest, Col, A: Ay Cnn oe cen,
Book Charles—Lt., A A. Oe ee
Baker, Piotr -Caaet Aa Ae ee
Pe Oe EVE FB fio ontgcences eee cereeansi cts meno wen
Bain, sto ee Ne New York N.Y.
POMIR OVE Fei ooidc tee sient si eovteisn ees cni pr aiisaepiictrnume
Baldwin, Grover -C.—Cadet, A. A. C.....6006 Santa Ana, Calif.
POMPE PAs cats es cn nesty cc caves vas cess es te emer evo ge
Baar, Torah, Aviso scerccrecesen Camp Wolters, Texas
Bancroft, Wittiam—Cadet, Al ee ta i a
Paras. Ralik (set An... icici Fort Ord, Calif
Barr, Robert G.—Ensign, - We AG an Jacksonville, Fla.
Béaie, Ain “fhormton-—M. oc... o5 cn ccceiainaiccpuwiaginiancn aos
Seat fee Vi ia eda) See St. Loute: Mo.
Bendheitn, Adtian by V=9; No Ro picsseis sseceeveess Anacostia, D. C.
Bennett, Wilmert A.—Ensign, N...0....0.ccccceecsesees Pacific Fleet
erates Bo met ty he i eee Philadelphia, Pa.
Berryman, Price<1t.) Ay A. Coie oie Miami Beach, Fla.
eh eosin soy hence sarees winenucas esses ceueeg cep oieess
Billingsley, Joseph-—P. O. W. .....sciteasen Shanghai, China
Bed, Gariton—-Ensien, N.i5,..:..205.sn do cinoscus Chicamo; ii.
Bishon, ot ete ee i nae inke. Keesler Field, Miss.
Blackburn, George—A. A. Cu.....cccccccccssssnneees Montgomery, Ala.
Blakey, Janice Corporal. Aa Ml haces eis
Bigtock, james Ave vt Aco. ccctescsiestaees Camp Shelby, Miss.
PRB ii cie sch cacosnaroesnteaierere seeing ae Alaska
Boveer: John [Pee Pvt, A. incase Camp Shelby, Miss.
Fey oO eee TSI coach ops ss apepens en ee

De ae ae, Killed in plane crash

            

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)
boyd, Mdosr-oPyt., a. Co Pensacola, Flag.
Boze, Tir Se Beste, Novice. cesecpedietecerectarsconeeeneasecssscee (uy ann
Been Me Pe at, Aas is ek oc wo Fort Knox, Ky
Bradiord, Larty——Lt.,) Pac... .ccceccccccctisscesheperecesoeee sonsdosveg ann
Bradley; ‘Tom-—Ensign, N icic..ccccccetcccecieselevsenecssereeentierseg nnn
Breckenridge, Lomax E.—Pvt A csevocsessesvesensntstesssossunes gs nnn
Breckenridge, William C eye A. A. Cu cisseenen nn
Byrimendine, 1) Nomis Bae Quantico, Va.
Bromm, Bred Pot, A. A. ne i iu tac Denver, Colorado
Brower, Ree Cor ord. Aico a Fort Sill, Oklahoma
Brown, Edward E,.—Lt., Acvcscccccccsccostesstersccctessoeesserars ons nnn
Beower James Flap Moai a Quantico, Va.
Brach, Alfred E-—Pvt., Ay 8) Coc205; Fort Monmouth, N, J,
Buchanan, W.——N....c.c.ccccccsscccactovsccscocvaesasiscecuccssasecnseseseee uss ssn
Buck, Doriald——Pvt.,. Acic.ccccscccccdccsccocosssssecscdonsessosscéshssecen tama
Biyoer, Grege—adet, No AoC Lakehurst, N. J
Burgess, Harrisoa-—-Pyt Asiana Kansas
Burke, Richard Floyd, 1ii—-Pyvt. Aucoin. Fort Dix, Nig
Paris Wile oN, A a a Jacksonville, Fla,
Busby, Charles W.—Ensign, N...........cccc08 Washington, D. C.
Butler, Herbert H.—Capt., A........... Fort George Meade, Md.
Butts, Elliott, Wo Trick caked he
Buxton, William E.—Lt., A. A. C...Albrook Field, Canal Zone
Cabell Kandolpt-—Lt. Anos jicccnk ns hanes Fort Story, Va,
Campoell loli i Lb) Man. ic ea tain Philadelphia, Pa.
Campbell, Stephen 1.——-Set. AG heii Albany, N. Y.
Carsag, Eall--Li Alice ee Fort Bliss, Texas
Carter, W. S--Cadet, Av AcE... Goodfellow Field. Texas
Chamness, Earl Eugene—A. S., N.........0ceeees New York, N. Y.
Chapman, Charles—Naval Reserve.........0......::cccse00een nn
Chuditeienh, Walter. I. Jr—1A,, Avian. Fort Knox, Ky.
Clémimer, Joseph—Set.,’ A.aieniy. aici Fort Washington, Md.
Crevemna, Jonn B-—-Lt, Maju. cinco Washington, D. C.
Cockrell; Bob—Lt., As A. Cosine i cccscccenvssnsesteecnres ss nnn
Cole; A. Nel -An co ecaias Camp Wheeler, Macon, Ga.
Cole; Lioyd—Lt, Aw As Cociceccicccisscleisesndssceescnseseesesnceee co am
Coleman, Almand Rouse—Capt., A............. Washington, D. C.
Coleman, FPrancts,—-Pvt., A...c nkosi anc
Coleman, Ri A—-Capt, Annes audesc: Washington, D. C
Collins, Hunt——Lt., Av A. Cascio ccccssesecssssoeysnsereeee onsen) nen
Conner, Buford—Corporal, Adicccccccci...ccsessccoeseresooesereeeeo nnn
Cook, Donald EHugene—Pvt., Aocnci...cccccscccccccssesesssesersee soos
Cook, John; 11 I—Cadet, A. AoC. oo. il... scene
Copme, Donal Pvt AicAid.cseineitece case ae Alaska
Cory, Wilham Roberi— Air. ois cescncsencat nents Fort Bragg, N. C.
Cosgrove, William E.—Pvt.,  M...0....2.......::.).:0rc0eeeseee0p he ann
Cox; Binery—-isien, Ni kien alia Foreign Service
Cracelora: s)he VG een Fort Knox, Ky.
Crawtord, Tommy-—Li Mo osccrdGaancks Quantico, Va.
Crittenden, Tom—Aviiiccicicsicccccsccesesesscocconsentecesssquseeessesnqen nnn
Crittenden, Thomas L.—Pvt.,. Aso...cc eens San Diego, Calif.
Crook, Edward Carter—Ensign, N............. Washington, D. C
Curl, Charite—Al As Cicci coin iscicceiscasveenscccsne soos
Curtis. Ciiftera——atlet N. AL Coa cs Pensacola, Fla.
Dabney, Bill—Lt., A. A. Cu. ccc. ccc es tccessetesses-eeeeoesecesnn nnn
Daneier. eR Pvt A ai ation Fort Dix, N. J:
Davidson, Charles H. ne eR NG ser laa New York, N. Y-
Davis, FOR by Oth A eo ci esos Fort Thomas,
Payis: Robert BS Me ai ceive San Diego, Calif.
aJean, Cameron——N As Uo icccsceuss cal New Orleans, La.
DeHaven, Rabert-—Cadet, A: Av C..ucan eae Califormia

[8 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name Rank _ Branch of Service Station (if known)
Delaplaine,. William—Lt., Ni Ay Cil.22 | Pensacola, Fla.
DeLong Ai Rew: Ala oe ee Fort Sill, Oklahoma
DeVan,; Fodd-—Capt. A. MoC. J 6 Port. Dix, N..}.
DeVita, Leonard—Pvt., A......:.:.... Fort Strong, Boston, Mass.
De Weées, Sonn Pet Ae Fort Eustis, Va.
Dickson, Haskell-—Lt- Au Fort Belvoir, Va.
Dickman, George Hmerson—Pvt. A.
Dillard, ‘Lester Layne—Seaman, N..0..7 Notre Dame Uni.
Disney, Mitchell—Ensign, N...... Washington, D. C.
Ditto, ‘ansan-—-Easion. Noa
Donehs,. Truman’ D--PVvt, As. cc Fort Benning, Ga.
Drake, tena ik AOA Ro
Drake Magruder M.—Ensign, N.........c.ccccsce Washington, D. C.
Drew; Willan C.-L, Nuc ee Richmond, Va.
Duchotesots, tack—Lt Ao ae Camp Robinson, Ark.
Dunnington; G. Waldo—-Pet. AL ae Chicago, III.
Eccleston, Chester—Seaman, N.............c0006. New York, N.Y.
Edwards, toseph Beet vi. Avan eee Fort Knox, -Ky:
Edwardes Wore f aet, Mao oa San Diego, Calif.
Ellis; :Pagnk oie et Ao MM. Goo. Fort Jackson, 0: .C.
BE llisom. Ween Line te Aa A ac Fort Monroe, Va.
Evans, Wien Cant. AL As Cae
Fenner, Georee—Pvt., Acc... Camp Edwards, Mass.
Fenton, Harold 2y.5 [iin PVE Li ices sncisssensccssranvoces Aberdeen, Md.
FiCTO. ee tee VE re se ar ode een Fort: Dix, -N. J:
Fish, Pathe Pye ee ae ee eee
Fishel, lames corporal Aas cis Camp Lee, Va.
Fisher, }aek—Gadet, A Aj Cin iscsi Montgomery, Ala.
Bix, Jp Rle SORIA, Oo gies ea Norfolk, Va.
Flatware: Fea ie el eb nid aoe a es oo a
Foote, (aenrec Silt Me a Florida
Forket; lout 1 Aca Scott Field, Ill.
Forman, Francis Weber—Cadet, A. A. C...San Antonio, Texas
Fox, Abed Gal, Aw8..e.«. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind.
Fox; blatiten stay, Nicci co Notre Dame Uni.
Mriedbete, Jean 8—-iusien, Nock oc nics Norfolk, Va.
Funk, James W.—C., A.A.C...Maxwell Fld, Montgomery, Ala.
Gaddy. Prarcid-- lest Pilot A. AC...) Hickem Field, La.
Gardter, Francis P—Comormnder, Nico Norfolk, Va.
Garrison, lorme— Ft Anica Camp, Grant, JU
Gilmore; 4 ar ea er, «leis ape esasceeecas ag wns bicooes eas
Gillelawd, Georetea, Awa Ai seu ans Camp Lee, Va.
Gilléapie. lace, Mc New River, S. C.
GClasshartet, Tele Fo Co aces ee es
Gla sc Pee IE ssi once ee
Glen, Fhe et, Ae as Governor’s Island, N. Y.
Clovete error ey Cae ee ee a es
Goodwi, Asearee Fie dat Ass iiss nce ce ce is
Gordon, Lewis Coleman——Lt. Cal.,, A.....3.. Houghton, Mich
Graff; Georeee Pvt, Ag Gieuiiictdd iu Rec
(raves spars a Nae inc ee,
Cori fivth, st ee PAA os earesdene as Camp. Lee; Va.
Gunn, Wiltamy B.—Cadet, A. A. Crcisccccscccces. Santa Ana Calif.
Gurkti, (ali ei SIR, IN dan sv ccsctereoctte cas Norfolk Naval Base
Gwyel Wale Lb A. cae Fort Sill, Oklahoma
Paislipe Hat set, Ne oss oe Quantico, Va.
Flarrhet: Feb Whe, Pais ok es sds
Hamiiett, James W.—Lt, Ne A Ci. Corpus Christi, Texas
Hanmpnd.uekoss. Pv, An i esc
Hankiess. Pragr- Ac sicko
Flartenson, Wl) ec i
Harris, Alvin ety Fico ee San Angelo, Texas
Harris, Allen, Jt:--1A, Niven New Orleans, La.
Harrisan: 8. COC Mater: Acc. Washington, D. C.
Hart, R-SPvt; Anca te Hort Dix, N. J:
Harter: Jack-Lt, Ace) Cameo: <-roit; S.-C:
Harve Harold-—“Ltc A. AL eis.
Hatch, Ciia  Caaer ACR ee Wichita Falls, Texas

Name Rank Branch of Service Station Gf known)
Hausrath Hen A a a
Head, Jack D.+-Easin. Nok a Washington, D. C.
Heartwell; Witten 2.. Ji -basion. N. Ras... Norfolk, Va.
Frenderson, mneriiad 1b Maes: Pacific Area
Herndoo, New N. Thee vb Acc cis  ak
Hersey, Moss bt, A. ce... Camp Blanding, Fla.
Pickman,; Kenneth-—set, Acca Fort: Bragg, N.C.
Hiserman, Edward—Seaman, N c6 cc ce, Norfolk, Va.
Haid, Archte W.-Lt, A. AC. MacDill Field, Tampa, Fla.
Fish James=-O0t A Ae a San Antonio, Texas
Hobson, Robert C.—Seaman, N............c.c0000 Notre Dame Uni.
Hodges, ae Fea Washington, D. C.
Pilot a werd 1 Bi Green River, N. C.
Hee: ee ae a re ee ee
Heatiand. Robert E—Ensign, BAe ik cea Norfolk, Va.
Hopkins,” Wiliam: B.-1A] Mae os Philadelphia, ‘Pa.
Houser, Aubiey— Cadet A. s Co Maxwell Field, Ala.
Houston, Net Cadet Ne Annapolis, Md.
PROW at Ne
Howell, Richurd b—-Hnsien No Sea Duty
Hoyt, Robert 5, -Staff Set. Al MM Cae Shreveport, La.
Hudgins, ee ae Ne Norretk Navy. Yard, Va.
Tincson, Tiowar ot Aa Canip Croft, S.C.
Hulsey, Harl Hugh——Lt. . A, Cee cee oe Australia
Hummers, William—Cadet, PR Ps ar ee he ea
Hunt, Giiatl Cadet IN. «Says aes fcdyistass ea yea
Hunter, Jack-—A. AL Cc
iiynson, Frank W.—Ension. Noe Alexandria, Va.
lenico, Robert V.—Col, A Aki Dayton, Ohio
Det, Norma Pvt Ane Fort Thomas, Ky.
ae {eB ncion, Nii eee Active Duty at Sea
Jacobs JrequeeeP yt Aun ia
Jamieson, ‘A. Douglas—Corporal, Aino... Fort Eustis,: Va.
Jennings, William—Seaman, N. A. Cu... Dallas, Texas
PONMSON, Hh eG eee
Jolisons Chatige WV Re
Johnsom, Posie A os West Coast Patrol
Johnston, Walter Co--Lt. A a.. Governor’s Island, N. Y.
Jones, Mallory €-—Capt.;. Aviinicic. hes Fort Sill, Oklahoma
Jordan, |. Later Me Philadelphia; ‘Pa.
Satrrore) dar 2 1A A. A Ce
PCC, NAIDN OA a a OE ee
Keim, Robert-—Ensien, N. A: €....:..62).3.. Pensacola, Fla
Rener, Kripa Li Moo. ee
Kirkpatrick, John L,.—Cadet, A, A. C....2...... Montgomery, Ala
Berner i eC eee
Wrsiier, Went het A a ee
Re, Te A ea Langley Field, Va.
Koentz; Arthur--peaman, N; Al Cl360 2 oe
Wale Pee a a ee At Sea
Lilie, (PUL Na eee
Lame, jaines—Pvt. AcArt..22. 0. Fort Brags, N.C
ieee Otago Artin tA ee ee
Lae WV a Ae ce ee
Pepe es, ue a ee
Ege VV ane, 1 A Camp Grant, III.
leer, Benjamin b.-et., Ago ee New. York, Sic ¥-
bee Whatles Ee ee California
ljgee, 3. KR Cadéet, No ALC Jacksonville, Fla.
LAG JAR a
Littlepage, Josepn—-Lt,, A. Ao €... oo Kelly Field, Texas
Enattime Terman 2c) Ae Camp: Lee; Va.
Loch, Aiew—Hawen. No Los Angeles, Calif.
Loeb, Roepert O+- Basie. ON tia eae
Lowthian, Robert WN 32.03.00 Great Lakes Trng. Station.
Latin, “Meervy 2 0b A er
Livikes; (Oars etc AN oa
Lykes, Josepa Pasion; Nik ccc fa oaks Atlantic Area

L? |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)
MacCorkle, Samuel L.—Sgt., A.......... Camp Shelby, Miss.
MacDonald, Ketineth Ut “A. Me Cite iis
Magee, Joce—Pnsion, Niginucce uns Washington, D. C
Malloy, Wilham-—-Pvtij) Aussie iepdiea eee ee te es
March. jack-—1t, A. AL Ma Seattle, Washington
Mann, Arthur W. Jr-—Ension, Ni... Ba es ioiwckn
Mates: lack Geet; Ge cease,
Marstellar, William—Ensign, Na... eee On Board Ship
Martin, Prank Mt. AoA OC Greenville, Miss.
Martin, H. Thomas, Tr MSM RR Evanston, III.
Mast Js Ho jr aA: A. Co ee ie, Washington, D. C.
Matthews, Aronld—Ensign, IN ee U: S$. §:- Tuscaloosa
Mathews, James A.—Capt., A... Fort Sill, Oklahoma
Matinews, Po. )—-Ao A Cor al ei ae a eet
Mary. tial vt AL A es aie a lee ce
McBryde, Willian Boi As AL Co us Langley Field, Va.
MeUsndieds, Lawion Cadet, AWA. Choe ene aie
Wet hesney:. Sabie ic a i ee ee
MeGleod Bil LG ie a ee ee Paris Island, S: C
McConnell, James Roger—Lt., A. A. C.....Randolph Flid., Tex.
Met nitheon, 4 oti sien i ee ee
McParland, Huch-—insion, Nicaea: Chicago, II.
McGee, Stanley Cadet, B,C A. Paiicnsson Quebec, Canada
Mec therney, Georve—Catet, A. A Cass ates tasseensiteterncreses
Mekenna, Pioya—Cadet Ny AW Gy Jacksonville, Fla.
McKensie, John C. A.—Ensign, N.............e New York, N. Y.
Metavenian. ene Ute Nie eee Boston, Mass
Mcleod: Carl tamies—-Pvt., Mine... Paris: sland. S.C.
McClure, Matt Thompson—Ensign, Na... Miami, Fla.
Metvitie, George Cadet, N. A. Caciuccinane Pensacola, Fla.
Dreneies Poh hv 6, Wik es eh eri ee
Mettall, Billk--Set a Awd neon Camp Joseph Robinson, Ark.
Netcall Peter-clLt, Mies... Midway Island, P. O.
Weer Paul MAL AL eh ak iniaeieho Ri Gian
Nile. Vernon. Ensien, Ni A. Cie: Pensacola, Fla.
Molloy. Mace vi A Ree ee ak Fort Bragg, N. ©
Montgomery, M. C. tet Pui AY Aoi aes Sea
Moore, Dristor= Basie, Nos Ra ei ee ee
More. TGs, Aus... daa Siia Fort Benning, Ga.
Wilton. Pa la A AS Cai bic ee eae
Muller, Clifton: 6. Ac ALA juice Kelly Field, Texas
Murchison, aN Hilap ak es ie a ee
Murray. George+-Lt.; &. Av Goa... sn Enid, Oklahoma
Marray, William-Lty A; AcoC. ace Enid, Oklahoma
Netbervet.: Bole Pb Aiicscciiecels Non ceset cca aban seeders nreeaceees
Nelson, T. Burt—Lt., ON ACT ae es Montgomery, Ala.
Nichole Prag AA Cage Pearl Harbor, T. Hs
Nichols, Howard B fe CAS Celi Meridian, Miss.
Nicholson, Robert ACE Me AG A aaa ts
DehCPG FORGE VE, Peecrates Berea ean oi ea sb eran
Ore ie es es ee ee
Natt; William R.—Cadet, N. Ast Conc... Anacostia, D. C.
Oswald Withane—Cadet, Ao AY Coa Montgomery, Ala.
Paries Wel ac ti yc eee eos te pe
Parrishs Shae Pvt Adie eee a
Parsons, Greoree HA ce cies ces Fort Monroe, Va.
Peacock? Jathe- Eisign, Nadibic. ain ea one
Peeples, Henry C.-eCadd, A. Ay Ci, ir ee
Perog, ae Pov aa ie A a ete
Petty, Bonet © Hoi ea I ee ee ae
Petto, Foun adet, Ro AC... Quebec, Canada
Pierce Berry G., Jf Pet, Av A. Cis ck ake Scott Field, Ill.
Pierce, TO Me co ae ee ee
Pies, Forme, Mas i ee Philadelphia, Pa.
Pitger, Pred “Set. As ec ais Fort Riley, Kansas
Plitaumer, Dour. Peat A. 2) as i ea
Price, James Fi: Jr-—-Bnsion; Now waa Norfolk, Va.
Pritchard, Charlies A—LA., No AS Crcicaenkie Norfolk, Va

a

     

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)
Pruitt; Samuel: O.—Ensien, Ni: Ricken Key West, Fjg
Ramsey, James T'yler—Cadet, A. A. C....... Gunther Field, Ala
Rassman, Emil C.—Corporal, A................ Fort McClellan, Ajg
Ravenhorst, Henry 15.-—Pvt., A..cccn es Camp Meade, Md.
Rawiles, dwar G— Pvt, Aas ea Camp Lee, yam
Ray, Pyt., a bua ee Washington, D. @
Ot. OE Al erie ce aureps acre e Indiantown Gap, Ga.
Rehr, Louis—Lt., - Bin CospeeecBckiieewn css vnad shseceles ose sah nnn
Reinartz, Peo ak Tank. Corps) .....:.5...000+++:ep0r0es eee
Reniek,: Robert Mis—A, Ao Con ciniedicuine ee Australia
Ressel, Raymond —A,. o..cisccc0.ccicsecciceciedsccsesedseseeeessocsoupveee enn
Reynolds, John—Cadet, A. A. Coc... cick. cessesecseeneeseeneees ag
Reynolds, Wallace—Pvt., Az...:.3.0.65-40.. Fort Hancock, N, J,
Richarason, Jim Corporal, Anca San Juan, Porto Rico
Rinpe, Siddye- ly Anse oe hisses psees Camp Lee, Va.
Robbins, Alfred Newton, Jr.—Ensign, N....... U. S. S. Barney
Robertson, Robert L.—Ensign, N................... New York, Naa
Robinson, John—Ensign,  N...........0c:ccesseesesecesseeceeesens an enn
Ropinsoa, Mare 1..—Li. AA. Cu Sacramento, Calif
Rogers, James—Lt., A. A. Chace Fort Bragg, No
Sartor. Alton i ve; A oicia i See Camp Polk, La.
Satingérs: Rithara— Pvt, Asawa Camp Edwards, Mass.
Sav ey Yn ym Lh Auris neciscveciccstsesecadecciccvcaaeocseteds cose eneas tn
Schatter, Berts—E6 Mic. cick ee eae cnsin sere e Cuba
Schewel, B-R-—Pytiy A cciiceitsceiscssutestsso
Schlossberg, John—Pvt., A... co.cccccsccccseseoeesereceeseessersas sen
Senrover, 1.0u-—Evi, ASA. Cai eae ae Biloxi, Miss
Hehuitneis. Wes -Pyvt., Alger Chanute Field, Ill.
Schultz, Robert-—Pvt., M Cherie ei ieee Quantico, Va.
Schulte. 101s (bt A eae ca Rizal, Pe
Soot: Peacwore: Mi tt Ace ears, Fort Benning, Ga
Seals, James. F.—Capt., Acoc.ccc.cccsseccascccetoncretssess-ooeeroheemnn nnn
Searfoss, Pat-——Pvt., A cicceccsicilessseevedi Soistissss Hovis sansa
Seipert,-¢ iniey. Pace, Jr Pvt, Au. Fort Sheridan, Ill.
Shannon. F.d=-Hnasten, Noses cick sue Norfolk, Va.
Shaw; 1 cooper, A=, Mca ie eb Norfolk, Va.
Shellabarver:> hred--—_H nsien, Nei iiseve Bs Chicago, IIl.
Sherrill, John—Gorporal, | A.v.cicc.csccicecscecsedesestesteteeedoet nnn
Shirley, Chester—Lt., Aw A. Corccccciicpescccceensht i ir
Shreve, Robert—Ensign,N.....U. S. S. Maryland, Pacific Fleet
sSraiiate, Wuias ft vt; Adin. l. Fort Riley, Kansas
Shute, Phillip K.—Pvt., 5 Poe ea Oakland Airport, Cal.
Silverstein, Jay—V-/, N seccbusiseesisveslausvcchssnencncosseess setescee lina
Simon Marion. bi Ves; Noakes New Orleans, La.
Simpson, Alec Pvt, Aiiiokcunisen cians
leat, Co EA esc ias casas sesbupsv uote cosine Corregidor, P. L
Sloeuiih: ba wt A Ae cccsen etiam California
Sinithiy AAP etter LAL Me Sisco cccticccaasnetiierenoee Quantico, Va.
Pe TiUl ys et Peete hd bag A ereeidays eens cnperctse eects Camp Lee, Va.
Smith, G.  Murray——N oociccscscccesccdeccissacosceseaiessssicuerseecesensne mann
Siiichy, ary are 1 en Fort Sill, Oklahoma
eit, itera VV hy Mate. Philadelphia, Pa.
Giith, Maree Fo [ti Ak a ee Fort Knox, Ky.
ir le ee OL. Acar Sparta, Wisc.
Steele. Fe 1 asion, Noel: savin Norfolk, Va.
Steinhoff, Charles—Ensign, N........0c.ccicccssscscoenesseceseeceee enn
PEC, A POnA ME Lyme Ase ci cccchivaevons Fort Benning, Ga.
Bietrett. h-Cadet. Ai AD ic wecdean Boston, Mass.
Stevenson, -Mel-—Corporal,: Actas cisccedscccss Denver, Colorado
BiGwart 4 meies—— Loto Aah cies eeesetateed Fort Riley, Kansas
Stewart,/ Jock A: R.—=A. A: Coit ciccecccccstectieseeoons ncn
Stoddard, Harry——Ension, N.iiccs-.goessecedecesdieaseessest stress
ora i hy i ee oe Fort Bliss, Texas
Stone William FoH—-id,, Nici. ico a
Snyder, Charles P.—Admiral, N............... Washington, D. C.
Sayder, 0 i be Mic ieiesniin ts Paris Island, S. ©.
Spangler, 1 Major, Ac M. Co...o ieee Ireland
SpauidNie, David LeeeP vis Aichi Gade Camp Leg Va.

[ 10 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)

Sphar, Asa-Pvi.. Av si Kansas
Spohr, John D.—Ensign, N.....Navy Dept. Washington, D. C.
Sproul; Dr, A. Erskine-—Lt., AW @ 3 eas
Suddeth, Watson-—-Lf.. Aone ec

Suppiger,. Gerald—Ension N.' 1.503. 3. Chicago, IIl.
Surles, E. Edward—Civilian Supply Off....Montgomery, Ala.
Sutherland, Fo RL. A Quantico, Va.
Sweeney, Kobert-—-Purser. Bae ees
Swit Bill--Set A. ica North Dakota
Symonds, Allen——Lt. AG Camp Hulen, Texas
Taylor: fames—-Pvi. A AL Ce Keesler Field, Miss.
Thatch, Gordon—Lti, At AY Coach Selma, Ala.
Thomas. Ropert—-] 4. Mey occ ce Quantico, Va.
Thenipson. tigeh Ri itis, Ale: Richmond, Va.

Thompson, Rotiald--Ensien, N. AotW ous
Thuran, Bion Asai a aa
Toalson, Glen—Lt, Acco ise Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
Tolley 7 Ges. Aa bi ca ic ae Mather Field, Calif.
Torrington, William—Pvt., A. A. C...Wright Fld. Dayton, O.
Triee; wart A
Trueheart; Paylor sannions——-Cadet, NoA. Co a.

Tucker, Victor Lee—Ensign, N............:000.+ Washington, D. C.
Tulley, “Von Pvt Aw iii Se i a a
Upchurch, Frank—-Cadet, A: A.~C........... Maxwell Field, Ala.
Van de Water, Kenneth—Ensign, N..............c0c00008 Norfolk, Va.
Van. Vitel, Cimiton— Pvt. AL isc adanes Scott Field, Ill.
Van-Voast, Meme peatian, Nooo Abbot Hall
von Kadlinowsi, Gordon MaM NN. Roo Evanston, III.
Wage: Bop seaman, NA. Coca Lone Island, N. Y:
Ware: Hd——Bombarater AA: Ck ee ea,
Waster, Ditk 1A Ar A Cie Mississippi
Wakefield: Beriton— seanian Noo Chicago, Il.
Wathen Clatde—= asian, No Atlantic.. Area

Name Rank Branch of Service Station (if known)
WAGE, FO coasters ever shee
Waltets, Clittard— bio Ais cc iiscieessciescsolc bonssinuesigs Port Knox, Ky,
Watt. “Michaet G Aviation Instructor wo
Watson; Piriest-—2 i Aon Cs Kibla Field, Miss.
Weathers: To Wee Pvt, Acdsee Ais Camp Lee, Va.
Weber, James—Lt., Acicccs.ciciccsesssscds deviases Camp “croft. $. °C.
Webber, Walter--Pvt; Ascii Fort Benning, Ga.
Weemisier, Sani —P Vtg Ai oiscccdccsserrnasionss Long Islaid, N.Y.
Whaley, Bill—Ensign, N................0000 Notre Dame Univ., Ind.
Wee Fienry  isiee: Ni ie
Wee. Pave biisien Neo ok ia eee
Wikaisos, john Jot-Ensien, N.S akc ean bee
Ville, Charles “Tension: Noi iaiiacian cmedue qa
Weilams, <sreyton-——Pvt., As diiccosscccnunsieies Camp ieee, Va.
Wiis; Tawiee--- Set, Ale cua. cae: Camp Ord, Calif.
Witson, HOp-—LA, Ans eco nook. Fort Roberts, Calif.
Wilson, Poward —& Jr—Lt, Ac. sce. Fort Brage, N. C.
Wiseu, J yree—Lt, No AW Eo... os Ouonset Poimt, RK. I.
Mee ee i tN

Wiswell, Merideth P., Jr—Cadet, A. A. C...Montgomery, Ala.
Woodward, Herbert—Ensign, N....... Harvard Business School

 

Woodward, Hrnest—S2t., Avi.cccccecscsscscsctaces Fort Benning, Ga.
Wolfe, Herbert—Set, Axes Camp Wheeler, Ga.
Worrell, Robert: M.-—Pvt., Aciccv iii. cisceciscseens ce Kort Knox, Ky.
White, Andy Set, Ai ccs betesscssparns-deeepew aaa sw Alaska
White: John (.—-Corporal, A... bak Charleston, W. Va.
Winter, Marviti 6.2-P vip Aaa... New York, N. Y.
Wright; Richard Vs—Sot. Mak. Foreign Service
Wrysond, Alison ©. jr eit, A. T. Bache ee
Yonge, Fo Kh Prt oA ae ee ee Camp Blanding, Fla.

Youngs, Brooks (Cadet, N. AL Gages. cower
VYoune, }o Cai ni aii iets das Wisssemns sania wee
Young, Neely—Cadet, A. A. Cu... cee Maxwell Field, Ala.

A Hero ot World War II

LANsSoNn Dirro, ’42, is one of the first of the Wash-
ington and Lee heroes of this second world war.

Ensign Ditto, a native of Paducah, Kentucky, was
anti-aircraft control officer aboard the air-
craft tender Langley when she was at-
tacked and sunk by three waves of twenty-
seven Japanese bombers in the Pacific re-
cently.

When his ship was going down, Ditto
dived from the flight deck and was res-
cued by the naval tanker, Pecos. Later on,
when the Pecos was attacked and sunk
also, Ensign Ditto kept afloat for seven
and a half hours by means of a life belt,
though he had received shrapnel wounds:
and burns from bomb flashes. Finally he
was picked up by a destroyer.

While he was floating, Ensign Ditto
helped keep up the spirits of the other survivors. It was
said of him by C. J. Hindus, radio man on the Langley
that he was a “‘little dynamo of energy. He and other of-

 

ficers cheered the men up, kept us together, and kidded us
about how much liberty we’d have the next time in port.
Why, 75 or 100 of us floating there in the water were

entertained for an hour at Ditto’s antics
as he played with a dead flying fish.”

According to his sister, Ruth Ditto,
who recently visited him in San Fransisco
where he was recuperating, “He was the
last man off his deck when the ship sank
and he called to the others to keep close
to each other, as they swam around in the
water, because in that way they could have
a better chance of fighting off the sharks
or protecting each other from other haz-
ards. Phey managed to cling to a few
wooden boxes which had been ~thrown
overboard and in this way they kept afloat
for several hours.”

The destroyer which picked Ditto up took him to
Australia, whence he was transported to this country as
soon as he was able to be moved.

[i]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Campus Comment

By Wat Downlg, '42

AR has come to the Washington and Lee campus in
W.:. form of an accelerated second semester, a short-
ened examination schedule, a two-day Finals dance set,
and a summer session with coeds.

As part of their contribution to the war effort, Wash-
ington and Lee students
took part, on April 10th,
in an “Offense . Bazaar’
sponsored by the women
of Lexington and held in
Doremus Memorial gym-
fasiam. ‘Ws, Prancis  P,
Gaines, wife of the presi-
dent: of: the, University,
was chairman of arrange-

ments.

Music, dancing, food,
“pied, Tortune tellers
and sideshows combined

to produce an afternoon
and evening of varied en-
tertainment for students,
VMI cadets, and towns-
people. Popular professor
Jimmy” Barnes acted as
master of ceremonies.
Music was furnished by
the Washington and Lee
“Southern Collegians’ and
the VMI “Commanders.”

The Bazaar was a huge

success from all angles
making a $1200 profit,

which was contributed to
Bundles tor 7merica,”
With students and pro-
fessors leaving 1n increas-
ing numbers to go to the defense of their country, and
“acceleration” quizzes flying thick and fast, Washington
and Lee students cannot help but realize that there is a
total war going on.
Campus activities, however, have been little affected
by the situation. The hottest spring elections in years,
featuring an out and out two-party conflict, resulted in

 

At the “Offense Bazaar”

the election of the following officers for the 1942-43
session: President of the Student Body: Lee Kenna,
Charleston, West Virginia; Vice-President of the Sty-
dent Body: Felix Smart, Pine Bluff, Arkansas; Presj-
dent of Fancy Dress: Bev Fitzpatrick, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia; President of Finals:
Jim Daves, Blanche, Ten-
nessee.

The Washington and
Lee traditions on conven-
tional dress, speaking on
honor
system will be upheld dur-

campus, and the
ing the summer term. A
summer Executive Com-
mittee will be in operation
to see that the time-hon-
ored customs do not die.
When asked what would
constitute conventional
dress for girls, Studegs
Body President Howard
the  disap-
pointment of the 140 boys

Dobbins, to

registered for the summer
“Slacks

shorts, and bathing suits

Session said,

are definitely out.”

The army and naval air
forces have removed about
20 boys from school this
semester. The Naval Re-
serve’s class V-7 and the
Army Air Force reserve
has accepted 40 or 50 un-
dergraduates and deferred
them pending receipt of
their degrees. The general attitude of Washington and
Lee students seems to be expressed somewhat like this,
“T’ll go when they want me, but I want to finish my edu-
cation first, if possible.” There have been comparatively
few impulsive patriots leaving school in order to get @
crack at the enemy.

(Continued on page 18)

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Senior Banquet of 1942

Dr. Gaines gave what he described
as the same old speech he always gives
on this occasion with added remarks
on the unfortunate subject closest to
all of us. (The address was definitely
not the same old one except in that
it had the same old excellence of all
the president’s talks so well known to
most alumni). Howard Dobbins, ’°42,
president of the student body this year,
answered for the seniors in a speech
well worthy of his Phi Beta Kappa
key, not to mention his varsity mono-
grams. Cy then had to explain the
mysteries of the Alumni Office which
he did well in spite of the anti-climax
occasioned by the necessarily exposi-
tory nature of his remarks.

 

Permanent officers elected this year
The Class of 42 waiting for mess call were: Walter G. Downie of Sander-
sor, bexas; as president ( Acgdemic
N sprte of war, woe, and worry, your Association un- School); Howard W. Dobbins, Louisville, Kentucky,
Loesece again this year to entertain the graduating vice-president (Law School); and Thomas A. Clark,
class at the Annual Senior Banquet, and all of you are Atlanta, Georgia, secretary (School of Commerce).
to be congratulated on the feast you provided. To some, The Senior Class is to be congratulated on the fine
it may seem that annual banquets for college seniors have group of officers elected to serve for a term of five years.
no place at such a time, but there is al-
ways the answer that even in war we
must prepare for peace and that even
these young men you see in the ac-
companying pictures, resplendent in
tuxedos for a moment before they ap-
pear in uniform, are going to be Wash-
ington and Lee alumni and that they, as
much as their predecessors, have a
right to be properly initiated into that
select company.

Representing you in the Pine Room
of the Mayflower Hotel on the night
of April 29th were Cy Young, of
course, as general factotum, your presi-
dent, ‘fohn Morrison, ‘25, as toast-
master (and he did a grand job), and

W. Carrol Meade, ’25, of your board

of directors. Some of the seniors who answered

[13]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Business School Convention Held Here

By C. Tom Garten, '42

N EVENT of national interest was the twenty-fourth
Bocas meeting of the American Association of Col-
legiate Schools of Business which opened its three-day
convention in conjunction with the triennial convention of
Beta Gamma Sigma, national commerce and business ad-
ministration honor society, on April 23
on the Washington and Lee campus.

Representatives from the 55 schools
holding membership in the AACSB,
coming from 34 states attended the
convention. The commerce school of
the University is a member of the As-
sociation, and the local chapter of Beta
Gamma Sigma was host to its national
convention.

During their three-day visit on the
campus the educators heard speakers
of national prominence tell of the part
the university school of business are
expected to play in the war effort.

Rueben A. Lewis, fr:, 16, was the
main speaker at a banquet held the
evening of April 23. At present pub-
lisher of the magazine, Finance, he
formerly was Washington representative of the New
York Journal of Commerce, vice-president of the Con-
tinental, Illinois Banking and Trust Company of Chicago,
and vice-president of the Metropolitan Trust Tompany
of Chicago. He received his A. B. degree from Washing-
ton and Lee and while here was editor of the Ring-tuim
Phi and a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.

Other speakers at the convention included Under-
secretary of Commerce, Wayne Chatfield Taylor; Dr.
Stacy May. of the War Production Board; Leo M.
Cherne, editor-in-chief of the Research Institute of
America; and Major Robert B. Coons, assistant chief of
the manpower division from the National Headquarters
of the Selective Service System at Washington. Dr.
Francis P. Gaines welcomed the members of the As-
sociation to the Washington and Lee campus at the ban-
quet on April 23rd.

Dean’ G. D. Hancock of the Washington and Lee
school of commerce was in charge of local arrangements
for the convention and was assisted by Professors L. K.

 

Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., 716

Johnson and L. W. Adams. Students of the school of
commerce assisted in the registration of the delegates.

 

Herpert G. DoLLauire, II, 32, has been in the hotel]
business since graduation and seems to have worked
«, about everywhere there are hotels,
from Mississippi to Maine; from Mo-
bile to Memphis; from Memphis to
st. Jo! In May, 1941, while he was
filling an important position at the
Mayflower in Washington, he received
and accepted an offer to become As-
sistant Manager of the Royal Hawaiian
Hotel in Honolulu. Since the beginning
of the war and the taking over of his
hotel by the Navy, he has been com-
missioned a Lieutenant (jg) and will
be retained as special adviser to the
Naval Charge d’Affairs.

 

In Marcu, the Alumni Office was
very happy to receive a letter from Mr.
John Flournoy Ponder, 1867, the old-
est living alumnus of the University.

Mr. Ponder, who is ninety-five and a resident of Los
Angeles, writes a letter which shows little trace of his
age. ‘hough he recently suffered a severe fall which al-
most resulted in a broken back, and though he has been
confined to his house as a result of his injury ; though he
complains of bad eyesight and says he has been visited by
recent misfortunes, he shows a strong interest in the life
around him and in the latest in the long series of wars
that have occurred during his life.

We only wish that Mr. Ponder were able to return to
Lexington and contrast the present campus with the one
he knew seventy-five years ago.

 

The Treasurer of the Student Body Fund reports
that he has on hand several copies of the Calyx for the
years 1935, 1936, 1938 and 1939. Any Alumnus who
wishes to have one of these may obtain it by writing
to Sam Rayder, Treasurer of the Student Body Fund,
Lexington, Virginia. The price is $2.75, delivered.

 

 

6 Eee

[ 14 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Major Spring Sports for 1942

By MarsHALt JoHNSON, ‘42

With only two wins in nine starts
Baseball prior to the four-day trip to Wash-

ington, Georgetown, Maryland and the Quantico Ma-

rines, it is needless to say that Washington and Lee’s
baseball team has not achieved much
success thus far this spring.

Boasting an anemic batting aver-
age collectively of .188, the diamonders
have had few bright moments since
the two opening games of the season
in which they tied Virginia once, 0-0,
and defeated the Cavaliers once, 6-4.

Since that time, the nine has scored
‘only one win in seven starts, that an
8-7 decision over William and Mary
when Harry Baugher, sophomore
shortstop, blasted a long triple with
two out in the ninth inning to drive
in the winning run.

The failure of the Generals to come
through seems to lie least of all with
the pitchers—Jay Cook, Fv Schneider
and Captain Pres Brown—who have
performed notably with a few excep-
tions.

After the first two encounters with
Virginia, the Generals suffered two de-
feats on their eastern trip to Rich-
mond, 11-7, and to William and Mary,
10-2. Sophomore outfielder Carl John-
son provided the highlight of the trip
by blasting a home run with the bases loaded against the
University of Richmond.

In the next game Virginia Tech took one of the steps
which eventually led to the Big Six championship by
handing the Generals an 8-2 licking.

William and Mary provided a temporary halt to the
losing streak, but it was started again by the Lynchburg
Senators of the Virginia League who took the Washing-
ton and Lee baseballers into camp, 9-2.

Virginia Tech provided the next beating, 2-1, in one
of the best games seen on Wilson Field in the last couple
of years as the Gobblers formally clinched the state
crown. Jay Cook allowed the Techmen only four hits,
half as many as the Generals accumulated, but Tech

 

“Captain Dick” Smith, Coach

bunched two of them with two walks to sew up the ball
game in the fourth inning.
A 12-3 loss absorbed
Spiders closed the home
prior to

at the hands of Richmond's
season of the Generals just
their starting on the Wash-
ington trip.

Only one regular has been able to
maintain a .300 average this year, that
being third sacker ‘eddy Ciesla who
is hitting .333, for five games. An 1n-
jured ankle kept him out of the other
four. The next ranking hitter is Harry
Baugher with a .278 mark.

The Brigadier nine, boasting hit-
ters but few pitchers, closed its sea-
son with a record of six wins and four
losses, thanks largely to the hitting of

Sam DiBlasi, Ken Hovermale, Ed
Harlan and Jack Kubler.
The first two boys maintained

averages all season of close to .500
while both Harlan and Kibler finished
over the .300 mark along with Stan
Carmichael.

Lack of capable pitching led to
most of the yearlings’ defeats as they
averaged over ten hits and nine runs
per game. In general, the team looked
fairly good, and several of its members
will be valuable additions to the varsity
next year.

Wins were scored over Clifton Forge High School
10-9 and 10-9; Augusta Military Academy, 5-4; Buena
Vista High School, 5-4 and 16-5; and VPI freshmen,
13-3. Losses were suffered to Bedford High School, 14-7 ;
A. M. A., 12-9; Virginia freshmen, 13-12; and Staunton
Military Academy, 12-5.

Continuing the unsuccessful vein of the base-
Track a |

ball team, the track squad ran into hard luck
in the shortage of members and absorbed three straight
defeats before participating in the Big Six meet.

Losses were handed the General runners by Rich-
mond, 69-57; William and Mary, 72-24; and Virginia
Tech, 97-29. At the same time the freshman trackmen

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

were gaining a 57-57 tie with Richmond’s yearlings and
bowing to the VPI frosh, 74-43.

Heading the performances for the season were those
by Captain Bud Yeomans, Lillard Ailor, Hank Woods
and Chuck Wooters. Yeomans was high scorer for the
season with 42 points.

Yeomans competed in the high and low hurdles and
the broad jump in all three meets and also ran the 220-
yard dash in two of the meets. He won a total of six first
places and four seconds.

Wooters won both sprints against Richmond, had a
bad day at William and Mary and was shut out, and then
placed second twice to Virginia Tech’s Paul McMullin.

Ailor, captain-elect of next year’s team, took second
in the shotput against Richmond, took first in the shot
and second in the discus against William and Mary, and
garnered first in the shotput against Virginia Tech.

Hank Woods, competing in the discus, racked up two
firsts and one second. He set a new Washington and Lee
record for the discus with a throw of 137 feet, one inch
against Richmond, only to see John Griffin of the Spiders
come through with a heave of 154 feet, which eclipsed all
existing state and Southern Conference marks.

The only other first place taken by the Generals was
in the javelin at William and Mary, won by Ken Rip-
petoe. Others who competed during the season were Walt
McLaren, Jay Silverstein, Earl Brown, Sam Graham,
Bob Lawton, Frank DilLoreto, John Schofield, ‘T’om
Ulam, Bob Hite, Hal Keller, Walt Pope and Jack Roehl.

Pacing the freshman trackmen were Pete Figgatt,
Chip Miller, Ellis Moore, Pinky Norman and Dyke Nor-
man. Figgatt took firsts in the sprints and broad jump
against Richmond, but a bad ankle caused him to drop
out against VPI after taking second in the 100-yard
dash.

Miller took first in both hurdles events and the pole
vault in the Richmond meet, and then came back to take
one first and one second in the hurdles against VPI as
well as tying for second in the pole vault.

Moore won the 440 against Tech and placed second
in the 220, after failing to place by running the half mile
against Richmond. ‘The Norman brothers were consistent
point-getters in both meets in the shot, discus and javelin.

Others who competed for the yearlings included Dick
Corbin, Phil Page, Jack Dowdey, Ray Prater, Maurice
Miller and Bill Otter.

Tennis This year’s tennis season, which should

have been among our most brilliant, turned
out to be a disappointment because Fred Perry, who had
expected to be our coach again this year, was prevented
from taking the job by the injured elbow he sustained in

~

Madison Square Garden during the professional tour last
winter.

Undaunted by this blow, the tennis team went ahead
without any coach and did a creditable job nevertheless.
They played five matches in all, winning one with Emory
and Henry 5-4, but dropping the other four to V irginia
and Hampden-Sydney, each twice, and all by the same
score of 4-5.

Mr. Perry expects to come back next year as coach of
the team which he gave excellent training in 1941,

The students participating this year were Jack Barrie,
captain; John McCormick, William Phillips, Ralph Tag-
gart, William Allison, Clarence Ballenger, Richard Spin-
dle, and James LaPlante as manager.

Golf Probably the most successful of the spring

sports this year was golf, in which a strong
team composed of Bill Noonan, captain and No. 1 player,
5. L. Kopald, Jr., Gordon Sibley, Felix Smart, and Bud
Bowie played eight matches, won four, lost three, and
tied one. The winning scores against The Citadel, Wil-
lam and Mary, V. P. I., and Davidson were 16%4-1¥,
16%2-1%, 154-2, and 16-2. Their defeats were by the
Apprentice School, 11-7; Virginia 1214-514, and Hamp-
den-Sydney, 10-8.

Oddly enough their greatest triumph was the 9-9 tie
with Duke. Duke’s team has been unusually strong for a
long time and hasn’t lost a match to a southern team in
years.

The prospects of next year’s team, according to Cy
Twombly, our stellar golf coach, are bright.

 

THornton W. Aten, 13, well-known composer of
the “Washington and Lee Swing” has written both words
and music for a new march called ‘‘United Nations For-
ever’ whose words have already been translated into five
languages and arranged for orchestra and military band
in addition to voice.

tes

V. R. La Vovrg, ’35, after extensive experience with
six newspapers in New Jersey, New York, and Con-
necticut, was inducted into the army on June 2, 1942,
and assigned as an engineer to Fort Belvoir. He is now
chief clerk in an office there and has been promoted to
Private. Mirst Class.

 

Henry H. STaAEHLING, '36, is sales representative
in the Jersey City office of the International Business
Machines Corporation. It has been announced that he 1s
qualified for membership in the company’s 1941 Hun-
dred Percent Club of Sales leaders, and executives.

| 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

1941

THe manifold tragedies of war were emphasized for
Washington and Lee this month when Robert S$. Boyce
of the class of 1941 was killed in a mid-air collision near
Orlando, Florida.

Boyce was piloting an army pursuit plane when his
machine collided with a bomber in full
flight.

Bob entered the Army Air Corps

as an aviation cadet after his gradua-
tion here last spring. He was trained
at Randolph Field, Texas, and at Key
Field,
being ordered to the Orlando Air Base.

Meridian, Mississippi, before

Last year, as his contemporaries
well remember, he was co-president of
the Cotillion Club and head of Spring
Dances. He was also captain of last
year's varsity swimming squad and a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He
was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity.

1938

Ropert TURNER Morison was kill-
ed in an automobile accident near Gate
City, Virginia,
March.

Associated with his father, A. Kyle Morison, he was
a member of the firm of Morison and Morison in Bristol,
Virginia. He had been practicing law in that city since
his graduation.

His wife, an infant son, his parents, two sisters and a

on the seventh of

brother survive him.
1924

Dr. Paut B. YartTss, assistant professor in the de-
partment of anatomy at Ohio State University was killed
in an automobile accident on April 26th near Bucyrus,

Ohio.

After graduating here, Dr. Yates studied at Johns
Hopkins from 1926 to 1928 and took his M.D. at Ohio
State in 1935.

From 1924 to 1926 he was an instructor in biology at
Washington and Lee. He then taught the same subject
at Baltimore City College from 1928 to 1929 and was

 

Robert S. Boyce, 1941

named assistant professor of biology at Ohio University
in 1929. He became instructor in anatomy at Ohio State
in 1930 and was promoted to associate professor in 1936.

He is survived by his wife, four sons, his mother, and
two brothers.

1917

HoraAcE SUTHERLAND, outstanding
attorney of Galax, Virginia, and for-
mer judge of the 21st judicial circuit,
died in his office of a heart attack on
March 6th.

Judge Sutherland attended Roan-
oke College for three years before re-
ceiving his law degree here. His class-
mates and contemporaries will remem-
ber him as a member of the football
team and as a prominent figure on the
campus.

His wife, the former Sarah Hicks
Rhudy survives him, as well as three
sons and a brother.

1896

Howarp VERNON CANTER,
thirty-two years a professor of the
Classics at the University of Illinois,
died on March 13, 1942.

After his graduation from Washington and Lee, Dr.
Canter, a native of Winchester, took his Ph.D. at Johns
Hopkins and started his teaching career as an instructor
at Notre Dame College in Maryland. After that, he was
on the faculty of the University of Missouri before going
to Illinois. From 1915-1926, he was also Assistant Dean
of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. During the
last war he served with the YMCA in Italy and was
awarded a Gold Service Medal by the Italian govern-
ment.

for

As a scholar, he contributed greatly to learning in
his field. As a teacher, he left a lasting impression upon
the many students who studied under him.

He is survived by his wife and one son.

1876

FRANKLIN BrocxKson, 76, former member of the
Delaware legislature and the United States House of

ary

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Representatives died at his home in Clayton, Delaware,

on March 16th.

A native of Blackbird Hundred, Delaware, Mr. Brock- +

son taught school for some time after obtaining his LL.B.
here. After being admitted to the bar, he served in the
General Assembly from 1908-1910 and in the United
States House of Representatives from 1913-1915, as a
democrat.

He is survived by a sister and two brothers.

 

Campus Comment
(Continued from page 12)

One junior tried so hard to finish his education before
being drafted that the other day a letter came to him from

-his local board in a small Oklahoma town. It read some-
thing like this: “When you registered for selective ser-
vice you said you were a pre-law student. In February

you: were. deferred because you wrote that you had
changed to pre-med. Now you write that you are tak-
ing a CPT flying course and ask to be deferred again.

... We-wish.that you would make up your mind.”

Weddings

A MARRIAGE notice in the Boston Gazette for March
12, 770, read: ** Last’ Sunday evening was iirried: here
Mr. Daniel Shaw of Marlborough to Miss Grace Coit of
this town, a young Lady embellish’d with every Qualifi-
cation requisite to render a married life agreeable.” We
know that even more than this could be said about the

following weddings:

1901
Dr. DoucLas SmrtH ANDERSON to Miss Marjorie
Harrison in New York City on April 25th. The couple
will be at home after the first of June at “Rock Crest,’
Ogunquit, Maine.
1929
Dr. Ropert Harpin Witiiams to Miss Andrea
Newcomb Brown last February at St. Andrews Church,
Wellesley, Massachusetts.

1934

LIEUTENANT (JG) CHARLES AUSTIN PRITCHARD to
Miss Martha Lee Upshur last March in the Church of the
Good Shepherd, Norfolk, Virginia.

1936.
LANE Bairp to Miss Miriam Parish in Tulsa, Okla-
homa, on April 28th.
1937

EnsicGN Kenneéra Gorpon Dustin to Miss Mary
Elizabeth Lee, place or date not announced here.

1938

ALFRED Mitton Morrison to Miss Carolina Spencer
Foulks in Houston, ‘Texas, on the 24th of April.

LIEUTENANT (USA) Rospert MitcHett Waite, I,
to Miss Elizabeth Finley Moore at the Trinity F/piscopal
Church, Columbia, South Carolina, on February 25th.

 

*DRs Topp Devan, °33, is a member of the surgical
staff at Tilton General Hospital, Fort Dix. Having se-
cured his commission as Ist [Lieutenant in the Medical
Corps after his graduation from the University of Penn-
sylvania in 1937, he volunteered in October, 1940. Af-
ter special army training at Walter Reed Hospital and
elsewhere, he has been promoted to the rank of Captain.

 

FREDERICK DE R. Stronc, °35, is now an Ensign in
the supply corps of the navy. After three months of ac-
tive duty, he has been ordered to the Supply School held
at Harvard University. His address is: Navy Supply
School; Hamilton A-23; Soldiers’ Field; Boston, Mas-
sachusetts, where he would be glad to hear from other
members of his class.

 

KENNETH G. Dustin, ’37, was commissioned in the
Naval Reserve as Ensign on April 14, 1941, after flight
training at Squantum, Massachusetts. Last February
while acting as instructor to a cadet at Jacksonville,
Florida, his plane went into a spin and fell into the St.
Johns River. He and his pupil were both rescued un-
hurt by another cadet, who swam out to them.

 

Ropert E. Berry, who attended Washington and
Lee from 1924 to 1926, is the author of a biography on
Nathaniel Bowditch, which, according to reviews, 1s
“earnest and readable and packed with illuminating de-
tai

Yankee Stargazer, the name of Berry’s work, ex-
plains fully the Salem (Massachusetts) navigator’s lite
and the significance of his The New American Practical
Navigator, which is still being used by the United
States Hydrographic Office, though it was first published
in 1802.

Mr. Berry is employed on the staff of the New York
Times.

[ 18 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1896 1901
GrEorGE G. STILES is In the past we have tried to include in the Class Frep Wurrte began to
proprietor of “Idgewood Notes some mention of every man from whom a attend Washington and
Training” Farm,’ “home, class letter was received. Now that it has become Lee 4/ years ago, where,
Georgia. necessary to reduce the number of pages in the it will be remembered, he

C. CABELL TUTWILER
has a_ beautiful country
place, “Brushwood,” near
Lexington and enjoys
meeting his. friends who

. t t] /
return for Finals and other ion, though.

 

magazine, we are eliminating the names of men
from whom no new information was received.
Since the information may be a year old, the ad-
dresses have probably changed anyway. The names
left out are not forgotten. We'd like more informa-

received many collegiate
degrees. He was associat-
ed with the steel industry
in Pennsylvania for 35
years and retired on July
Ist. His residence 1s now
Roanoke, Virginia. His

 

 

university celebrations.

CHarctes KE. Heater is an orchardist near Point of
Rocks, Maryland. After leaving Washington and Lee
he worked in Baltimore for five years, then west as far
as Alaska, for another six years, and then back home to
the farm. He has been successful and happy.

1898

W. O. BrownFIELp is Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Lee County, Opelika, Alabama.

Ropert Hite TurNER lives at 3372 Stuyvesant
Place, Washington, D. C. He is Assistant Pardon At-
torney, Department of Justice, where he has been since
1918. He complains that he does not like to write a hand-
written letter as his wife says he expresses himself bet-
ter through the medium of a stenographer, but he has
done a far better job than most, and next year we would
like to see if he can improve, via the stenographer.

1899

Witiiam C. Watson lives at 45 Smith
Street, West Haven, Connecticut. He reads
The Alumni Magazine and other bulletins
sent out from the University and always
looks for the mention of any of his class-
mates.

Wiruram W. Downey of Martins-
burg, West Virginia, is now a member of
the West Virginia Board of Control with
offices in the State Capitol Building,
Charleston. He still maintains his offices
and residence in Martinsburg.

ul ey

sung at
wily al

   

it
io ft

RMI {ft
Po WU HK Wel ‘Mon

 

oldest son is out of college
and is employed by the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corpora-
tion, Pittsburgh.
school, and his youngest son is in high school at Roanoke.

His second son is in a preparatory

1902

H. B. GRrayBILu, after spending many years in edu-
cational work in China, returned to this country some
years ago and is now Professor of Education, Green-
brier College, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

1903

CLrement A. Boaz deals in city property and farm
lands in Fort Worth, Texas. He advises his class agent
to come to Texas and see a great segment of God’s
country before going to heaven.

A. C. BURKHOLDER says he is still on the job he has
held since 1915—-Professor of Economics and Sociol-
ogy in Southwest Texas State Teachers
College, where his son received his A.B.
degree last May, and a daughter, her M.A.
degree two years ago.

1904

Ropert L,. Korps is a construction en-
gineer, 25 East Third Street, Frederick,
Maryland, where he has been for the past
thirteen years.

   
  

1906

}. Ropert Swirzer.is. Clerk. of. the
Circuit Court of Rockingham County,
Harrisonburg, Virginia. His daughter was

WIM
sl MH ut

ST

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

married about a year ago, and his son is a lst Tieutenant
at Fort Meade, Maryland.

CLaubE P. Licut is Assistant to the Prosecuting
Attorney of Wood County, West Virginia, Parkers-
burg, and is legal adviser of the County Court, which
has probate and finance problems. His home is at 916
Juliana Street, Parkersburg.

1908

ANprREW G. Briccs is in the farming and poultry
business at Locust Dale, Virginia.

W. P. Hooper is minister of the Highlawn Presby-

terian Church, Huntington, West Vir-
einia. He also teaches Bible in Marshall
College, and plays golf.

1910
HT, BuRR 1s an actuary. for. the
Life Insurance Company,
Raleigh, North Carolina.

Durham

J. W. RADER 1s superintendent of the
Colonial Park,

Yorktown, Virginia.

National | Historical

  

Ss
—————

 

     
 

—S—_——— =>

sold his town house, and has a most attractive place about
a mile from the city limits of Lexington.

1913

Dr. J. P. RicHArDSON is a member of the Taylor-
Richardson Clinic, Ellensburg, Washington.

1914

D. C. BucHanan completed his third regular term,
of seven years each, as a missionary of the Presbyterian
Church in Japan on July 1, and sailed for the U. S. A,
His son was a sophomore at Washington and Lee last
year. His address, while in this country
will be: care of Board of Missions of the
Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Ten-
nessee.

SAMUEL H. WILLIAMS qualified as
special assistant to the United States At-
torney General to act as a hearing officer

on appeals of conscientious objectors to
entering armed service in the Western
District of Virginia. His headquarters
will be in Lynchburg, but he will travel
throughout the district to hear appeals.

      
 

James M. Carson, member of the ==. ne = He resigned as the Government Appeals
SSS YY WES ; : |
firm of Carson, Petteway and Roman, ee Fe SS Agent for Local Selective Service Board

Congress Building, Miami, Florida, had
a severe illness early in the spring, but was well on the
way to recovery at last reports.

1911

J. P. ALEXANDER is an orchardist and farmer, liv-
ing near Fairfield, Virginia.

1912

WaLtER L. Hopkins is a member of the Virginia
State Legislature, representing the City of Richmond.

CHARLES LEE ORDEMAN is vice-president and treas-
urer of the Mead Sales Company, Inc., (pulp and pa-
per), 230 Park Avenue, New York. He says he is still
happily married, still likes golf, has one son in Andover
who, he hopes, will go to Washington and Lee, and an-
other boy eleven years old.

Crayton FE. Wittiams is still teaching law at
Washington and Lee. His son, Samuel Clayton, is a
student in the University. Clayton has recently turned
farmer, in addition to his duties at the University; has

[ 20

in Area 1 to accept the new post. He is
past-president of the Virginia State Bar Association.

BEN SmMituH, Somerset, Kentucky, comments on the
modern age by saying that his Class Agent’s letter, dated
April 29, was received April 27, but admits that his
Agent, Steve Chadwick, is a fast worker.

STEPHEN TF. CHapwick, finishing his term as head
of the American Legion, is back in the practice of law
in Seattle, Washington. His firm is Chadwick, Chad-
wick and Mills, Central Building.

Birt Lovins has been acting as a member of the
Supreme Court of Appeals since January, 1941, having
been elected to a twelve year term. In his note is also an
expression of his willingness to go again if the nation’s
danger requires it. He entertains some doubt as to physi-
cal qualifications.

1916

M. B. RipgNovr is president of Steffey and Find-
lay, a large building supply and coal company in Hagers-
town, Maryland.

EcHoL Spina MarsHALt is still with the Conti-
nental Can Company, 100 East 42nd Street, New York.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He has a son, Echol, Jr., who is headed for Washing-
ton and Lee about 1948. He also boasts that he has a
granddaughter born on March 1, 1941.

Lycurcus Hyrg is practicing law in Buckhannon,
West Virginia.

PARKER BUHRMAN is in the Foreign Service De-
partment, serving at present in the American Consulate,
Glasgow, C.2, Scotland.

1917

Marion WILLIAMSON makes foreign and domestic

veneers, Cockeysville, Maryland. He looks forward to

having news of “the rest of the fel-
lows,” but gives no news of himself.

  
 

publish The Advertiser, Evening; The Herald-Dispatch,
Morning, and The Herald-Advertiser, Sunday.

Birt Gippons, Jr., is Assistant Secretary-T'reasurer
of the Liberty Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. He is
still a bachelor.

Witiiam_ = T. (“BILL”) SPENCER is practicing law
in the Peoples National Bank Building, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia. He had an addition to his family in May.

A. MERRYMAN GILBERT is a bank examiner, living
in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

James H. (“GaNbDEr”’) BRYAN is with the real estate
firm of Molton, Allen and Williams,
Birmingham, Alabama. He is married

Del Pastor Wate ib abe “ and has two daughters, Margaret, ten,
Lieutenant-Colonel White, head of a ; Ne be a and Louise, four.
Medical Unit which has sailed for an we? Vikes H. A. (“Sorry”) Harrzo is pro-
unknown destination in the war zone. SA Vee 3 fessor in the department of Political

SAN A 3 Z Science, Lake Forest College, Lake
1920 RAY eg ‘f Forest, Illinois.

EMMETT POINDEXTER is still prac- Amis! a ay
ticing law in New York at 120 Broad- dy an | i | N L922
way, has a home in New Jersey, and at yey en eZ WNL Huston St. Crater attended the
a farm in Putnam County, New York. ~ SSS dedication of the Cyrus Hall Mc-
He has two prospective Washington : Cormick Library on May 10, 1941, and
ane: | Lee. appneants. -hanmett,” Jt was much impressed with the beauty
eleven, and Robert, five years old, respectively. and usefulness of the new building. He was chosen head

Mac Stusss is a member of the law firm of Daw-
sey, Stubbs and Dawsey, Healey Building, Atlanta,
Georgia, where he has been since finishing his law course
at Harvard. He is married and has three sons, aged 16,

14 and 9.

GLEN E\vINS is manager of the Lykes Brothers In-
surance Agency, 205 Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida,
where he has been for the past sixteen years.

Harry |. Moore is poultry husbandman with Co-
operative Extension Work in Agriculture and Home
Economics for the State of Virginia, Blacksburg, Vir-
einia.

Cart A. Foss is with the Kimball-Clark Publishing
Company, Inc., of Boonton, New Jersey. His home ad-
dress is 823 Pine Place, Bellmore, Long Island, New
York. His daughter was a junior in Vassar College last
year.

1921

Epwarp H. Lone is president of the Huntington
Publishing Company, Huntington, West Virginia. They

of the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce this spring.

1923
TED Harris is still writing plays and books. His ad-
dress is 86 Perry Street, New York. He spends much of
his time at The Belfry, Atlantic Beach, North Carolina.

R. M. Frew has been with the United States Rub-
ber Company, Winnsboro Mills, Winnsboro, South
Carolina, for the past five years. About two years ago
he went into personnel work as Employee Relations
Manager. He has a wife and two daughters.

H. A. AXELRoTH is a successful lawyer in Phila-
delphia. His Class Agent writes: ‘I suppose you all re-
member that he was carrying Ching Anderson’s vault-
ing pole through the streets of Lynchburg when the
gendarmes swarmed on him, put him in the Black Maria,
and hauled him off to the calaboose. A couple of us went
over to the newspaper office and enlisted the aid of Car-
ter Class.”

T. O. (“SHacK”) BacLey says he has all his hair
but it is very grey. Caught fifteen crappies on his last

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

fishing trip. He served as a Captain in the World War.
He was in Lexington on Alumni Day last year.

RayMonpD (‘‘Toap”) SNIVELY says there is no
change in his status. He 1s still thoroughly happy, healthy,
and busy. His main interests continue to be his family,
factory, and farm. He is vice-president and secretary of
The Hagerstown Leather Company, Hagerstown, Mary-

land.

K. A. C. Hocrt—Lathrop-Hoge Construction Co.,
1426 Clay. Street, Cincinnati, Oluo, 1s: head of this
company, where he has been for the past twenty years.
He has two sons, who took their engineering course—
no longer available at Washington and Lee—at the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati. He says: “I find that my football
and rowing at college have insured my al-
ready large frame becoming still larger,
so I am in the 230 pound class and show
little sign of diminution in the size of my
shadow.”

1924
By Crass AGENT, Otis Howek

GoopRIDGE SALE, JR.,-1s now located
in Charleston, West Virginia, with the
Brown, Jackson and Knight law firm.
With Rock Holt and Johnnie Morrison in the same firm,
he enjoys his Washington and Lee contacts. He is mar-
ried and has four children.

CLarK W. (“Happy”) Rasp is in the insurance busi-
ness in Memphis, being associated with Treadwell and
Harry. He is married and has one son, ten years old.

Daveé PoInver is still a banker at Como, Mississippi.
However, his chief interest 1s raising cotton and cattle.

Jim F. Sgacs has been promoted to the rank of Cap-
tain in the Quartermaster Corps. He ts officer in charge
of a large supply branch, where they supply over 400,000
men, and will work about 600 employees, so we know he
is busy.

GEORGE SPRAGINS continues to hold down the job of
manager of the West Arcadia Branch of the Bank of
America in California. Like most of us he works hard
and dreams of the day when we can get together at Wash-
ington and Lee again.

FRANK SWITZER is another of our class who has en-
tered army life. He is a Captain at Fort Meade.

Jack THOMAS remains our outstanding class mem-
ber, as he is not only on our Board of Trustees, but now
teaches in the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,

 

and says teaching preachers is hard work. Jack also has
acquired a boy, John Newton Thomas, Jr., since the last
letter. His daughter is six years old.

B. L. Matong, Jr., is practicing law in the First Fed-
eral Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.

H. L. SuHuty has recently become president of the
Morganton Furniture Co., Morganton, North Carolina.

J. W. FircHert is practicing law in the West Vir-
ginia Building, Huntington, West Virginia. He is presi-
dent of the Tri-State Alumni Association.

1925
Epcar McHenry, 2088 Hallwood Drive, Memphis,
‘Tennessee, is in the Bees and Bee supply business as well
as holding a connection with Dillard and
Coffin Cotton Company. He is married
and has one son.

‘Tom HarMON is practicing law in the
Union Commerce Building, Cleveland,
Ohio. He is married and has two sons
and a daughter.

Joke Horr is with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in Washington,
where he has been for several years,
He says he gets more kick out of his boys every day.

CALVIN BURTON is practicing medicine in Roanoke,
Virginia.

CarL H. Macritt has been employed for the past
seven years in the accounting department of the Poca-
hontas Fuel Company, Incorporated, at Pocahontas, Vir-
ginia.

ALLEN Harris, JR., has been commissioned Lieuten-
ant (jg), U.S. Naval Reserve, and is now on active duty.

1928

Lyt&é ARMENTROUT has been selling fertilizer for the
American Agricultural Chemical Company since 1929.
As a side line he operates a farm where he raises white-
faced cattle. He is married and has two daughters, one
nine years old and one five. His home is at Edom, Vir-
ginia, four miles out of Harrisonburg.

1929

WALTER WILCox is still with the S. D. Warren Com-
pany, paper manufacturers, 2 Park Avenue, New York.
He has purchased a five acre “farm’’ near Mt. Kisco,

| 22 |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

New York, in order to have more growing room for his
two small sons. Recently, his company transferred him
to Boston as assistant to the vice-president, so he will ap-
parently have to acquire another farm.

R. W. (“Bitv”) HAwKINs is with the Standard Oil
Company at Staunton, Virginia. He has been with this
company since leaving school. He was married in 1933
and has two children, a girl six and a boy three.

GEorGE HENRY GoopwWIN is now [jeutenant George
H. Goodwin, U.S. Army.

J. M. UFFINGER has changed his address from Ashe-
ville, North Carolina, to 1023 No. Augusta Street, Staun-
ton, Virginia. He has a wife and three children. He 1s the
Virginia representative of the Plough
Sales Corporation of Memphis, Tennes-
see, the manufacturers of St. Joseph As-
pirin, etc., not farm equipment.

CHarLEs D. MERCKE says the only
change in his status is that he was mar-
ried February 22, 1941 to Violet Stewart.
His: address. is 131 N. Hite Avenue,
Louisville, Kentucky.

1930

HowkErRTON GOWEN opened up an
industrial chemistry business in Roanoke Rapids, North
Carolina in 1938, was married in 1940, and has a son,
Howerton Gowen, Jr.

Wituiam H. (“Bitv’”’) Fields has been with the Fed-
eral Land Bank of New Orleans for the past eight years.
He is married and has two boys and a girl. His address
is 462 Lowerline Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

WiLiiAM T. STUCHELL, JR., is a member of the legal
staff of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New
York. His home is at 33 Brookside Avenue, Ridgewood,
New Jersey.

STANLEY Hampton is practicing medicine in St.
Louis, Missouri, with offices in the Beaumont Medical
Building. He is head of the Allergy Department of Wash-
ington University Medical School.

LAWRENCE Y. Foorr is a member of the law firm of
Hannah, Simrall & Foote, Hattiesburg, Mississippi. He
says that Camp Shelby, the largest training camp in the
country, is right at his back door, and business for the en-
tire community has been booming since the establishment
of the camp in September, 1940.

 

1931

Joun DEvINE, JR., is practicing medicine in Lynch-
burg, Virginia. In May he returned from a fellowship at
the Lahey Clinic, Boston, where, for six months he had
specialized in surgery of the stomach.

Burroucus R. Hite is in the biochemistry depart-
ment of the University of Colorado School of Medicine,
Denver, Colorado.

ALEX VEECH is still Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds at Washington and Lee, and in addition he 1s
now Town Manager for Lexington.

1933

CHARLIE IONGACRE, JR., received his M.A. from New
York University in June. His address is
322Raymond Terrace,. Khzabeth, New
Jersey.

Lorine M. Garrison is still with The
Fasley Progress, Kasley, South Carolina.
He says he 1s still treading the bachelor’s
path and sees no immediate change.

Frep Cook is with the Hamilton-
_~Cook Hardware Company, Waynesboro,
Virginia. He was elected president of the
Retail Merchants Association and _ presi-
dent of The Young Democratic Club, as
well as deacon in the First Presbyterian Church. He ex-
pected to be called to the armed forces in the near future.

1934

Ropert L. Burrirncton, in April, was working for
the United States Engineer Office in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
but was classified in the draft as 1-A, and expected to be

called in the service at any time. His Tulsa address is
1433 S. Frisco.

Ken Davis is representing the Simmons Saw and
Steel Company in Virginia, West Virginia, and a por-
tion of North Carolina. He is living in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, 507 North Boulevard. He says: “Every time I go
through Lexington I get a thrill; not only from the many
physical improvements but from the fact that I had the
luck to have a couple of year’s association with a uni-
versity whose tradition is capable of leaving such a mark
of respect and love, honor and integrity, on whoever
comes within its influence.”

FostEr M. PALMER is working in the reference and
circulation departments of the Harvard College Library.
He was married to Frances Hunter, of Sioux City, Iowa,

[ 23 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in 1939. He says marriage agrees with him, because he
weighs 186 pounds and by the official dictum of Uncle
Sam, has a ruddy complexion.

Victor MarsHati, M.D., is working with the So-
ciety of the New York Hospital, Department of Urology.
As to the “boss or wife,” he says he has plenty of bosses,
but no wife.

Joun T. Bowser, Jr., when his letter was written in
May, was employed in the office of the Judge Advocate of
the 38th Division, Camp Shelby, Mississippi, as he says,
“a sort of Assistant Judge Advocate.’’ His home address
is Winchester, Kentucky.

1935

Witson Kine is farming 280 acres at Rock Falls,
Illionis, besides engaging in numerous
civic and church enterprises and ad-
ministering two estates.

Epwin CouLBourn is a member of
the law firm of Harris and Coulbourn,
Suffolk, Virginia. He announces the
birth, on February 20, of a daughter,
Jane Higgins Coulbourn.

Birt Fow kes is practicing law in
San Antonio, Texas, with offices in the
South Texas Bank Building, where he
has been since Christmas, 1936. He is
associated with Park Street, L-'3l,
Washington and Lee. He is interested
in Bar Association work and is a member of the Legal
Aid, Grievance, and Anti-Usury Committees.

HarVARD SMITH was inducted into the Army with
the National Guard last February. He is now Ljeutenant
Hi, F Snimth,

1936

{JAMES 1,2 PRIcE, Jx., is.a “theological mterme”,at-the
St. Charles Avenue Presbyterian Church, New Orleans,
Louisiana. He has been a student at Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Virginia.

1937

James A. McCrurg, Jr., is practicing law in St.
Petersburg, Florida, with offices in the First Federal
Building. He says he married a yankee and has a fifteen
months old boy.

Davip WHARTON was teaching in the Menlo Junior
College, Menlo Park, California, and working toward

 

his M.A. degree, when his letter was written in the spring,
He expected to be teaching at Colorado State this winter,

Kppte Marks is working in the Credit Department of
J. Goldsmith and Sons Company, Memphis, Tennessee,
and likes it better than practicing law. He is Class Agent

bor 37k.

Henry MoreELanp is resident adjuster with the
Maryland Casualty Company, in Bristol, Virginia.

WALLy CarLTON BERNARD has been advanced from
vice-president to president of the Hudson Dyestuffs
Corporation, 333 Hudson Street, New York, New York,
and still retains his position as president of the Bernard
Color & Chemical Company. He says he is eagerly look-
ing forward to television so that the
professors at Washington and Lee can
see an image of him working.

1938

FARL J. Carson is with Special
Training Battery, Camp Wallace, Texas.
He says: “Am now an instructing cor-
poral; teaching illiterates to read and
write. Hope to go to Officers Training
School. Regards to all.”

Ip HisERMAN is practicing law in
Charleston, West Virginia. He is con-
nected with the Securities Commission
of the Auditor’s Office at the State House in Charleston.

Jok Drake is practicing law with his father under
the firm name of E. S. and J. T. Drake, Port Gibsam
Mississippi.

KrstTER DENMAN, Jr., is practicing law in Lufkin,
Texas, being associated with Mantooth and Denman,
Lutkin National Bank Building.

1939

Nerv Turpin Houston, B.A., received his Master of
Arts degree in June, ’41 from The Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy, Medford, Massachusetts.

JOHN GOoDIN is in the law office of William J. Carter,
Johnson City, Tennessee. He expected to be in the service
within a few months.

STANLEY PATTERSON is practicing law with the firm
of Patterson, Chastain and Smith, 1313 Dierks Build-
ing, Kansas City, Missouri. He was married in Septem-

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ber, 1940, to Martha Jenkins of Orleans, Indiana, and as Ensign Supply Corps, U. S. Naval Reserve, for in-
became the father of a lovely little daughter, named — struction. His home address is 6 West Blackthorn Street,
Penelope, the following summer. Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Jos—Epu C. Murpuy passed the New Jersey Bar ex- Rosert McLEAN JETER, JR., is attending Tulane Law
amination and was sworn in as an attorney-at-law of the School, New Orleans, Louisiana. His permanent address

State of New Jersey on September 10, 1941. His engage- js 4534 Fairfield Avenue, Shreveport, Louisiana.
ment to Miss Mary M. Conlan of South Orange, New

Jersey, was announced on July 13. His address is 227 ALVIN THEODORE FLEISHMAN is taking an executive
Lenox Avenue, South Orange, New Jersey. training course with Thalhimer Bros., Inc., Richmond,
Virginia. His residence address is 1824 Monument

1940 Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.
GALEN Brown Royer is an interviewer for Interna- DonaLp JOHN GODEN is working as a chemist for

tional Telephone and Radio Manufacturing Company, ‘The Koppers Company, Cicero, Hlinois. His permanent
1000 Passaic Avenue, EF. Newark, New gw address is 221 6th Ave., Moline, Illinois.
Jersey. His «residence address 1s. Tél ‘ | yy.

Valley Road, Montclair, New Jersey. 1942

Gorvon Ross L Loyp is employed as
a shipping Clerk for Chambers, Bering
and Quinlaw Company —Grey Iron
Foundry, Decatur, Illinois. His home
address is 515 Powers Lane Place, De-

Ricuarp M. RApcLiFFE 1s employed
in the accounting department of Poto-

   
  
    

AT,

mac Edison Company, a light and power
utility, located in Frederick, Maryland.
His address is 301 Rockwell Terrace,
Frederick, Maryland.

  
  
 
   

TOK}

5 wTRT I Cea af":
VUE CHAT 0 A

 

=
AB
or

rH

catur, [linois.

  
 

ay OF

WILLIAM ALLEN FLETCHER, JR.,

WiLLiAM McCLaiIn REap is teach- sy
nies wae ~ Narrows, Virginia, is now a student at
———

ing in Christchurch School, Christ-

. . . t —: oh .
church, Virginia. ee =e Emory and Henry College, Emory, Vir-

Pryton Rice is working for the Mc- "| _ S gina.

A i na WS, : .
Donald Construction Company—build- eer GILEs ConNELL McCreary is with

ing hospitals in the Canal Zone—defense work. His ad- the Texas Electric Service Company as cashier of the
dress is Box 2401, Cristobal, Canal Zone. Sweetwater, Texas, office.

ARTHUR RENO Porter, JR., 18 an instructor 1n eco- 1943

nomics and statistics in the Wharton School of the Un1-
CHARLES W. HEaty, JR., is with the Hoosier Ord-

nance Plant, Charlestown, Indiana. His home is at 2521
Seneca Valley Road, Louisville, Kentucky.

versity of Pennsylvania. His residence address is 337
Riverview Avenue, Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania.

Ropert LYTLE RoBERTSON is studying law at Vander-
bilt University. His home address is 540 Fy. Main Street,
Murfreesboro, Tennessee.

ERNEST MEADE BRALLEY, JR., is a student at Baylor
Medical College. His address is 4810 Tremont Street,
Dallas, Texas.

Louis McCLeELLAND WALKER is a sophomore in
Northwestern Medical School. His address is 1477 West
Macon, Decatur, Illinois.

 

Ricusérp |, SAnvord, fx, 32,00 572 H, 17th Street,

THE engagement of WitL1AM VAUGHAN Ayers to Brooklyn, New York, is now stationed at Fort Mon-
Miss Aloise Ellen Brill was recently announced. The mouth, Red Bank, New Jersey, and is attending Sergeants
coliple are to: be married m June.: 7 School in connection with the Signal School.

HeErpert Groop, ’32, of Fitchburg, Massachusetts, 1s
1941 stationed at USNTS, Newport, Rhode Island, and is a
WriittiAM ANDERSON MarSTELLER is now stationed — second class seaman. He finished training on May 8th and
at Navy Supply Corps School, Boston, Massachusetts, was shipped out to an unnamed destination.

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Commemorative Plates

ORDER FORM

L en@iteeds 2 Be for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.75 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped express collect from
Boston. Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of eight plates | | (or else check desired views below )

CENTER VIEWS

t. Waskineton, College: oes A 5. «Garnegie LAbfarye Oe ees. ae
eee Capel > ete Ped 6. Doremus Gymnasium’ ............%.. ba
& Mige- jackson. Floimtie sae ek, ed 7 Feeker Hall oo ae Beg
A» GCanpous Walk a ae ab 4 8. Washington College, 1857.......... Re

Check color choice: — [ | Blue | 4 Green [ |] Mulberry

Ship plates to:

Or CU RES aa Oe OS ete aS Bb a) hie EAR iis Be Oa a wie te wb wlls Cw ae 9: 6 6 See EM a bre OG ays ee lee) AES ab ec @ Semen eres Sem RSs Ae earn ee Meee ste

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a ee:

 

 

